               TELANGANA STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION: HYDERABAD
                          NOTIFICATION NO. 08/2022, DATED:04/08/2022
                    DIVISIONAL ACCOUNTS OFFICER (WORKS) GRADE-II IN
                             DIRECTOR OF WORKS ACCOUNTS
                                (GENERAL RECRUITMENT)
PARA – I:

1) Applications are invited Online from qualified applicants through the proforma Application to
   be made available on Commission’s website (www.tspsc.gov.in) to the posts of Divisional
   Accounts Officer (works) Grade-II under the control of Director of Works Accounts in
   the State of Telangana.

       i) Submission of ONLINE applications starts from Dt. 17/08/2022.
       ii) Last date and time for submission of ONLINE applications is upto 5.00 PM on 06/09/2022.
           The payment of Fee will be accepted upto 5:00 P.M of last date for submission.
       iii) Hall Tickets can be downloaded from 7 days prior to the examination.

2) The details of vacancies are given below: -
                                                                      Age as on    Scale of
       Sl.                                                 No. of
              Name of the Post          Multi-Zone                    01/07/2022     Pay
       No.                                               Vacancies
                                                                      Min. Max.      Rs.
             Divisional Accounts       Multi-Zone-I          28
             Officer      (works)                                                   45,960–
       01                                                                18-44
             Grade-II in Director      Multi-Zone-II         25                    1,24,150/-
             of Works Accounts
                                               TOTAL         53

(The Details of Vacancies i.e., Community-wise, PH-wise, EWS, Sports Category, Multi-
Zone and Gender-wise (General/Women) may be seen at Annexure-I.)

IMPORTANT NOTE:- The number of vacancies are subject to variation on intimation being
received from the Department concerned. Addition of vacancies if any, will be accepted only
before the date of examination and an addendum to that effect will be issued. Deletion of
vacancies if any, can be effected upto the declaration of result.

3) (i) The Examination (Objective Type) is likely to be held in the Month of December-
   2022 and the Commission reserves the right to conduct the Examination either
   through COMPUTER BASED RECRUITMENT TEST (CBRT) OR OFFLINE OMR BASED
   EXAMINATION OF OBJECTIVE TYPE
       (ii) Exact date for the above examination will be announced later.
4) Before applying for the posts, candidates shall register themselves on the One Time
   Registration (OTR) through the Official Website of TSPSC (www.tspsc.gov.in). Those who
   have registered in OTR already shall apply by login to their profile using their TSPSC ID and
   Date of Birth as provided in OTR. (In case if the candidate has forgotten the TSPSC ID, the
   candidate has to visit the TSPSC website and click on the link “Know Your TSPSC_ID” and
   enter the Aadhar Number and Date of Birth and get the TSPSC-ID). If the candidate did
   not register Aadhar Number in OTR, candidate has to enter either his/her registered
   mobile number or Name and Date of Birth to get the TSPSC ID).

Note:- i) One Time Registration is not considered as an application for any post under any
circumstances.
       ii) The applicants are advised to retain their Mobile Number and email id registered in
OTR for receiving OTP/SMS for further communication.

IMPORTANT NOTE: Applicants are requested to keep the soft copy of the following documents
ready while uploading their Applications and updating the OTRs.

  i.    Aadhar Card /Voter ID / Pass Port / Driving License / Service ID Cards with (Photograph
        issued by Central/State/PSU/Public Limited Companies) / Passbook with (photograph by
        Bank / Post Office) / PAN Card.
 ii.    Educational Qualifications i.e., SSC, Intermediate, Degree, Post Graduation etc.,
iii.    Study (Bonafide) / Residence Certificate (1st to 7th Class period).
iv.     Community Certificate (SC/ST/BC), Non-Creamy Layer Certificate in case of BCs issued by
        the competent authority of Telangana Government.
                                                                                                      2


v.    Income certificate for the Financial Year prior to the year of application issued by the
      competent authority of Telangana Government for claiming EWS reservation.
vi.   Certificates claiming Sports & PH reservation, and age relaxation for Ex-Servicemen.

5) The applicants who possess requisite qualification may apply online by satisfying
   themselves about the terms and conditions of this recruitment.
6) EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS: Applicants must possess the requisite qualifications as
   detailed below, specified in the relevant Service Rules, indented by the Department, as on
   the Date of Notification.

  Sl.                                       Educational Qualifications as specified in the
               Name of the Post
  No.                                              Service Rules of the department.
  01    Divisional Accounts Officer Must possess Bachelor’s Degree of a recognized
        (works) Grade-II in Works University in India established or incorporated by or
        Accounts                         under a Central Act or a state Act or an Institution
                                         recognized by the University Grants Commission or any
                                         equivalent qualifications.
N.B:- i) Distance Education:- The Applicants who have obtained requisite Degrees through
          Open Universities / Distance Education mode are required to have recognition by the
          University Grants Commission / AICTE / Distance Education Bureau as the case may
          be. Unless such Degrees have been recognised by the relevant Statutory Authority,
          they will not be accepted for purpose of Educational Qualification vide its Public Notice
          No. F.27-1/2012 (CPP-II), Dt. 27/06/2013. (A university established or incorporated by
          or under a State act shall operate only within the territorial jurisdiction allotted to it
          under its Act and in no case beyond the territory of the State of its location). The onus
          of proof of recognition by the relevant Statutory Authority that their Degrees /
          Universities have been recognised rests with the candidate.

        ii) Equivalent Qualification: At the time of verification of certificates, if it is noticed that
            any applicant possessing other than prescribed qualification and claims it as equivalent
            to the prescribed qualifications, then an Expert Committee will be constituted including
            the Unit Officer by the Commission and the Commission will take a decision based on
            the report of the Expert Committee.

7) AGE: The candidates should possess the Minimum 18 years & Maximum 44 years. The age
        is reckoned as on 01/07/2022 (Rule-12(1)(a)(v) of State and Subordinate Service
        Rules).

(As per G.O.Ms.No.42, G.A.(Ser.A) Department, Dt. 19/03/2022 the upper age limit is
raised up to 10 years i.e., from 34 years to 44 years)

Minimum Age (18 years): An Applicant should not be born after 01/07/2004

Maximum Age (44 years): An applicant should not be born before 02/07/1978

The Upper Age limit will be relaxed as per Rules and will be calculated on the above lines.

Age Relaxations: The upper age limit prescribed above is however relaxable in the following
cases:

Sl.
                   Category of candidates                           Relaxation of age permissible
No.
 1. Telangana        State  Government    Employees               Upto 5 Years based on the length
    (Employees of TSRTC, Corporations, Municipalities             of regular service.
    etc. are not eligible).
 2. Ex-Service men                                                3 years & length of service
                                                                  rendered in the armed forces.
 3.     N.C.C. (who have worked as Instructor in N.C.C.)          3 Years & length of service
                                                                  rendered in the N.C.C.
 4.     SC/ST/BCs & EWS                                           5 Years
 5.     Physically Handicapped persons                            10 Years

Note: Provided that the persons referred at Sl.No. 2&3 above shall, after making deductions
      referred to in Sub Rule–12(c)(i)&(ii) of Telangana State and Subordinate Service Rules not
      exceed the maximum age limit prescribed for the post.
                                                                                                      3


   i)  The age relaxation for Ex-servicemen is applicable for those who have been released
       from Armed forces other than by way of Dismissal or Discharge on account of
       misconduct or Inefficiency.
   ii) The age relaxation for NCC, a Person who was recruited as a whole-time Cadet Corpse
       Instructor on or after the 1st January, 1963 on his discharge from the NCC either before
       or after the expiry of the initial or extended tenure of his office in NCC having served for
       a period of not less than six months prior to his release from the NCC.

N.B. However, no person shall be eligible if he/she crossed 61 years of age (Superannuation
     age) after availing the eligible age relaxations as on 01/07/2022.
8) (A) FEE:
    i) Application Processing Fee:- Each applicant must pay Rs. 200/- (Rupees Two
        Hundred Only) towards Online Application Processing Fee.
   ii) Examination Fee:- The applicants have to pay RS. 120/- (Rupees One Hundred and
       Twenty Only) towards Examination Fee. However,
   a) All unemployees are exempted from payment of examination fee, and
   b) All Employees of any Government (Central / State / PSUs / Corporations / Other
      Government Sector) have to pay the prescribed examination fee.
  (B) Mode of Payment of Fee:

        The Fee mentioned at Para-I(8)(A) is to be paid online through payment gateway duly
following online instructions once the application form details are submitted.
        The fee once remitted, shall not be refunded or adjusted under any circumstances.
Failure to pay the Application Processing fee and Examination fee, wherever applicable, will
entail total rejection of application. Unless full payment of both Examination fee (unless
exempted) and Application fee is made, the candidature of the applicant will be rejected and no
correspondence or concession in this regard will be entertained. The list of Banks providing
service for the purpose of online remittance of fee is given in ANNEXURE – II.

PARA-II: CENTRES FOR THE WRITTEN EXAMINATION:

 1) The Written Examination (Objective Type) will be held at the following centres or as may
    be decided by the Commission.
      i) HYDERABAD (including HMDA Jurisdiction)
     ii) KARIMNAGAR
    iii) KHAMMAM
    iv) WARANGAL
     v) NIZAMABAD
 2) However, the Commission reserves the right to allot candidates to any centre other than
    the centre chosen by the applicant or to remove / create a new centre for administrative
    reasons. Request for change of the centre will not be entertained.

PARA-III: HOW TO APPLY:
HOW TO UPLOAD THE APPLICATION FORM:
 (i)   The Applicant has to read the User Guide (www.tspsc.gov.in) for Online Submission of
        Applications and then proceed further.
Step I: Before applying, the Applicant has to visit the website (www.tspsc.gov.in) and fill the
       OTR application if not registered earlier to obtain TSPSC ID. The candidates are advised
       to upload all the required certificates (However, original certificates have to be produced
       for verification at the time of scrutiny before finalizing the selection list). While filling the
       OTR, the applicant has to ensure that there are no mistakes in it. The Commission will
       not be held responsible for the mistakes, if any, made by the applicants. If already
       registered in the OTR the applicant can directly access the application form. The
       applicant is instructed to fill his/her application form himself/herself with utmost care
       instead of delegating to others.

Step II:-a)In order to fill the application form, the Applicant has to visit the website
            (www.tspsc.gov.in) and Click on the online Application Link provided on the
            Website, then enter TSPSC ID and Date of Birth and login with OTP received to
            proceed further.
        b) Applicant has to verify the details fetched from OTR database pertaining to Name,
            Date of Birth, requisite Educational Qualifications, Community, Gender, Disability,
            Ex-Servicemen & Sports etc., displayed on the screen.
        c) If the displayed details are correct he/she has to click on Yes button to confirm.
                                                                                                4


        d) If any details are not tallied and need to be changed, he/she should click on NO
           button. Then the OTR will be opened automatically for making corrections. After
           making corrections and clicking on the Submit button in the OTR, the corrected
           details will be automatically populated in the online application. Then the applicant
           has to click YES button to confirm.
        e) In addition to the details obtained from OTR database, specific details of Notification
           such as Examination Centre opted, required qualification and declarations etc.,
           should be filled by the applicant.
        f) Preview and Edit facility is available to make changes and then click on SAVE &
           CONFIRM button for proceeding to next step of making online payment of fee
           through payment gateway.

Step III:-The applicant should pay the prescribed fee as specified through any of the three
           modes of payment online i.e., Net Banking, Debit Card and Credit Card duly following
           the instructions appearing on the screen.
Step IV:-After payment of fee, the PDF application will be generated which contains the
         particulars furnished by the applicant. The applicant must download a copy of his/her
         submitted form (PDF). The Reference ID Number in the PDF application form has to
         be quoted for future reference/correspondence.

   1) Applicant shall note that, the details available in OTR database at the time of submitting
      the application will only be considered for the purpose of this notification. Hence, the
      candidate is advised to update / edit the details in OTR form before submitting online
      application form. The Time and Date of submission of the application will be printed on
      the application PDF form. Changes made by the applicant in OTR details after
      submission of application form will not be considered for the purpose of this Notification.
   2) The Commission is not responsible for any discrepancy in Bio-data particulars submitted
      in the application form. The applicant is therefore advised to strictly follow the
      instructions and User guide in his/her own interest before submitting the application.
   3) Applicant must compulsorily fill-up all relevant columns of the application form. The
      eligibility of the applicant will be decided based on the particulars given in the online
      application form in terms of notification and it is validated by the software and it will be
      taken as final. For eg: If an applicant fails to update the OTR regarding his/her PH
      status before applying, the applicant will not be considered for PH vacancies. Applicant
      should therefore be very careful, while entering the data and uploading / submitting the
      application form online.
   4) Incomplete / incorrect application form will be rejected. The information if any furnished
      by the applicant subsequently in any form will not be entertained by the Commission
      under any circumstances unless specifically called for. Applicant should be careful in
      filling-up the application form and submission. If any lapse is detected during the
      scrutiny/verification of certificates, the candidature will be rejected even though he/she
      comes through the final stage of recruitment process or even at a later stage.
   5) Before uploading/submission of application form, the applicant should carefully ensure
      his/her eligibility for this examination. No relevant column of the application form should
      be left blank, otherwise application form will not be accepted.
   6) The Commission will not make any corrections in the application form submitted by the
      applicant.
   7) Applicant must click on Save & Pay Button after filling and preview of the application.
      Otherwise the application particulars will not be saved in the database.
   8) Hand written/ Typed/ Photostat copies/ outside printed Application Form will not be
      entertained. The Commission will not be held responsible for the applications submitted
      in any other mode.
   9) For any Technical problems related to Online submission and downloading of Hall-
      Tickets please contact 040-23542185 or 040-23542187 (Call Time: 10.30 A.M to 1.00
      P.M & 1.30 P.M to 5.00 P.M on working days) or mail to helpdesk@tspsc.gov.in.

PARA- IV GENERAL PROVISIONS

1) The applications received online in the prescribed proforma within the time shall only be
   considered.
2) Applicant must upload his/her scanned recent pass port size photo and signature in .jpeg
   format.
                                                                                                   5


3) The applicant should not furnish any particulars that are false, tampered, fabricated or
   suppress any material information while submitting online application.
4) All the essential certificates issued by the competent authority of Telangana State shall be
   kept with the applicants at the time of submitting the application.
5) The required original certificates should be submitted at the time of verification of certificates
   or whenever called for.         Failure to produce the required certificates will lead to
   disqualification.
6) Important: –The claim of the applicants with regard to the date of birth, educational
   qualifications and community etc., are accepted provisionally on the information furnished by
   them in their application form and is subject to verification and satisfaction of the
   Commission. Mere admission to any test or inclusion of the name of an applicant in a Merit
   List will not confer on the applicant any right for appointment. The candidature is therefore,
   provisional at all stages and the Commission reserves the right to reject candidature at any
   stage of the selection even after declaration of results, if any mistake/wrong information is
   noticed at a later date.
7) The applicants should be willing to serve anywhere in Telangana State.
8) NOTE ON UTILISING EDIT OPTION BY CANDIDATES:
   The applicant should follow the TSPSC website regularly to utilize the edit option if given by
   the Commission at any point of time. No separate advertisement / notification will be issued
   in any news paper. No separate individual intimation shall be given.
9) Invalidation of OMR Answer Sheet: -
   a) If any applicant fails to bubble or wrongly bubble the Booklet Series, Hall Ticket Number
      in the OMR Answer Sheet, such Answer Sheets are invariably invalidated as the answer
      sheets are valued by Optical Mark Reader. This stipulation is to avoid any sort of human
      interface in evaluation of the Scripts.
   b) Tampering of OMR answer sheet by using whitener, eraser, blade and chalk powder
      etc., and also tampering of barcode by any means leads to invalidation.
   c) No request for reconsideration of such rejected/invalidated cases will be entertained.

10) A) The following certificates / documents must be submitted by the candidates at the
       time of verification of certificates.
     i) PDF Application form
    ii) Hall Ticket.
   iii) Aadhar Card /Voter ID / Pass Port / Driving License / Service ID Cards with (Photograph
         issued by Central/State/PSU/Public Limited Companies) / Passbook with (photograph by
         Bank / Post Office) / PAN Card.
  iv) Proof of Educational Qualifications.
    v) S.S.C / CBSE / ICSE (For Date of Birth)
  vi) School Study Certificate (1st to 7th Class)
  vii) Certificate of Residence (where the Candidate has not studied in Educational Institution)
         (1st to 7th Class period) obtained from competent authority of Telangana Government.
 viii) Declaration by the Unemployed (For claiming exemption from payment of exam fee).
  ix) No Objection Certificate from Employer (even if employed at any later stage of
         recruitment).
    x) Service Certificate (If any employee claimed Age relaxation).
  xi) Certificate claiming sports reservation.
  xii) Certificate claiming Ex-servicemen for age relaxation.
 xiii) Community Certificate for BCs, SCs & STs (Issued in the name of candidate with Father
        Name is only acceptable.) obtained from competent authority of Telangana Government.
xiv) Non-Creamy Layer Certificate for BCs as per Form- VIIB vide G.O. Ms. No. 34 BC
        Welfare (OP) Department Dt.08/10/2015 and G.O. Ms. No. 20 BC Welfare (OP)
        Department Dt.31/10/2017 (Certificate issued in the name of candidate as S/o OR D/o is
        only acceptable.) obtained from competent authority of Telangana Government.
 xv) Income certificate for the Financial Year prior to the year of application issued by the
        competent authority of Telangana government for claiming EWS reservation.
xvi) In case of PH Candidates, Visually Handicapped / Hearing Disability & Hearing
        Impairment / Orthopedically Handicapped / Multiple disabilities, certificates should be
        obtained from Competent Medical Authority in SADAREM format relevant to them.
xvii) Any other certificate required as per this Notification.
                                                                                                6


B) Guidelines for evaluation of various disabilities and procedure for certification are
    mentioned in G.O.Ms.No.31, WD, CW & (DW) Dept, Dt:01-12-2009.

   1. Physically Challenged candidates who are claiming reservations under Disability quota
      must note that they will be referred to State Medical Board (Appellate Medical Authority)
      after completion of certificate verification. The report of Medical Board is final.
   2. Request for re-medical-examination by the State Medical Board (Appellate Medical
      Authority) for assessment of disability will not be entertained.
 Note:-The    Certificate  formats     are    available         on     Commission’s       website
        www.tspsc.gov.in/certificateformats.jsp.

PARA-V :- IMPORTANT LEGAL PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE RECRUITMENT PROCESS:
1. Vacancies: The recruitment will be made to the vacancies notified before the examination
   only. There shall be no waiting list as per G.O. Ms. No. 81 General Administration (Ser.A)
   Department, Dated 22/02/1997 and as per Rule 6 of TSPSC Rules of Procedure.
2. Unfilled and Non-Joining vacancies will be Carried Forward to next recruitment.
3. This Recruitment is entrusted to TSPSC along with Finance Clearance vide G.O. Ms. No.
   101, Finance (HRM.VII) Department, Dt. 01/07/2022.
4. Recruitment:- The Recruitment will be processed as per this Notification and also as per
   the Rules and Instructions issued by the Government and also as decided by the
   Commission from time to time in terms of respective Special Rules/Adhoc Rules governing
   the Recruitment vide G.O. Ms. No. 86, Finance & Planning (FW.WA.I) Department, Dt.
   22/05/1998, G.O. Ms. No. 64, Finance (Admin.II) Department, Dt. 29/08/2019, G.O. Ms. No.
   164 General Administration (SPF.I) Department, Dt. 04/08/2021 and as per Government
   Orders issued from time to time, and other related G.Os, Rules etc., applicable in this
   regard.
5. Rules: All are informed that the various conditions and criterion prescribed herein are
   governed by the General Rules of existing State and Subordinate Service Rules, read with
   the relevant Special Rules applicable to any particular service in the departments. Any
   guidelines or clarification is based on the said Rules, and, in case of any necessity, any
   matter will be processed as per the relevant General and Special Rules in force.
6. Constitutional Provisions:- The Commission is empowered under the provisions of Article
   315 and 320 of the Constitution of India read with relevant laws, rules, regulations and
   executive instructions and all other enabling legal provisions in this regard to conduct
   examination for appointment to the posts notified herein, duly following the principle of order
   of merit as per Rule 3 of the TSPSC Rules of Procedure read with reference to relevant
   statutory provisions and ensuring that the whole recruitment and selection process is carried
   out with utmost regard to maintain secrecy and confidentiality so as to ensure that the
   principle of merit is followed.
7. Multi Zonal Post:- The posts are classified into Multi Zonal posts and the local reservation
   is applicable as per G.O.Ms.No.124, General Administration (SPF-MC), Department, Dated
   30-08-2018.
8. Local:-The Local Reservations shall be followed as per the Telangana Public Employment
   (Organization of Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct Recruitment) Order, 2018,
   G.O.Ms.No.124, General Administration (SPF-MC), Department, Dated 30-08-2018 as
   amended vide G.O.Ms. No. 128, G.A. (SPF-I) Dept., Dated: 30/06/2021 and other orders
   issued by the Government of Telangana from time to time and other related G.Os, Rules
   etc., applicable.
9. Employee Details:- The persons already in Government Service/ Autonomous bodies/
   Government aided institutions etc., whether in permanent or temporary capacity or as work
   charged employees are required to inform in writing to the Head of Office / Department, that
   they have applied for this recruitment, as the case may be and required to submit the “No
   Objection Certificate” from the Head of Office / Department concerned to the Commission as
   and when required to do so.
       The persons who are employed after submission of application or at any later stage for
   this recruitment should also submit “No Objection Certificate” from the Head of Office /
   Department concerned to the Commission as and when required to do so.
10. A) Penal Action:- The Commission is also empowered to invoke the penal provisions of
   the T.S. Public Examinations (Prevention of Malpractices and Unfair means) Act, 1997 (Act
   No.25/1997) for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto and as per the Rules of
   Procedure of TSPSC published in Telangana Gazette No: 60 dated 28/12/2015 in respect of
   this Notification.
                                                                                                    7


   B) Disqualification for appointment: A candidate shall be disqualified at any stage as per
   Rule-12(4) of Telangana State and Subordinate Service Rules.
11) Community: (a) The candidates belonging to SC & ST are required to produce Community
    Certificate issued by the competent authority (obtained from Government of Telangana
    State) in terms of G.O.Ms No. 58, SW (J) Dept., dt: 12/5/97 read with G.O. Ms. No. 5
    Scheduled Castes Development (POA.A2) Dept., dt. 08/08/2014, G.O. Ms. No. 11
    Scheduled Castes Development (POA.A2) Dept., dt. 17/09/2014 and G.O. Ms. No. 2
    Scheduled Castes Development (POA.A2) Dept., dt. 22/01/2015. As per Rule-2(29) of T.S.
    State and Subordinate Service Rules. Explanation: No person who professes a religion
    different from Hinduism, the Sikh or Buddhism shall be deemed to be as member of a
    Scheduled Caste. (b)The candidates belonging to Backward Classes are required to
    produce Community Certificate (BC-A, BC-B, BC-C, BC-D & BC-E) issued by the
    Competent Authority in the State of Telangana obtained through Mee-Seva vide G.O. Ms.
    No. 16 BCW (OP) Dept., Dt. 11/03/2015. (c) Income Certificate for claiming EWS
    Reservation issued by the Tahsildar (Government of Telangana) vide G.O. Ms. No. 244
    General Administration (Ser.D) Department, Dt. 24/08/2021 and orders and instructions
    issued by the Government from time to time.
12) Reservation: -
   (i) The rule of reservation is applicable in terms of General Rule 22 & 22 (A) of Telangana
       State and Subordinate Service Rules.
   (ii) Reservation to Disabled persons is subject to the Special Rules/Adhoc Rules governing
        the posts. The extent of Disability will be decided by the State Appellate Medical
        Authorities.
   (iii) If eligible disabled women candidates of VH(W) / HH(W) / OH(W) / MH(W) category are
         not available in the initial recruitment, the same shall be filled up by the eligible Male
         candidates with same category of disability respectively as per G.O.MS. No. 96 General
         Administration (Ser.D) Department, Dt. 22/07/2019. Hence, eligible male candidates of
         VH/ HH/ OH/ MH disabled category can also apply for the posts meant for Women
         categories.
   (iv) For Carry Forward PH vacancies, if eligible disabled candidates of that particular
        category are not available, the same shall be filled up by the method of interchanging as
        per G.O.MS. No. 96 General Administration (Ser.D) Department, Dt. 22/07/2019. Hence,
        candidates of all the disabled categories can apply.
   (v) Reservation to BC-E group as per G.O. Ms. No. 23 Backward Classes Welfare (C.2)
       Department, Dt. 07/07/2007, will be subject to the adjudication of the litigation before the
       Honorable Courts including final orders in Civil Appeal No: (a) 2628-2637 of 2010 in
       SLP. No. 7388-97 of 2010, dated. 25/03/2010 and orders from the Government.
  (vi) The reservation to Meritorious Sports Person is applicable as per the amendments made
       to State and Subordinate Service Rules as per G.O.Ms.No.107, General Administration
       (Ser.D) Dept., Dt. 27-07-2018 that is in Rule-2, for sub-Rule (20) and in Rule-22 (i) in
       sub-Rule (2), for Class-D. In implementing the reservation to Meritorious Sports Person
       as per G.O. Ms. No.05 YAT&C(Sports) Department, Dt. 14/05/2018, or as may be
       revised by the Government from time to time shall be followed.
   (vii) Economically Weaker Sections:- The EWS reservation is applicable as per
         G.O. Ms. No. 243 & 244 GA (SER.D) Dept., Dt. 24/08/2021.
  Note:-Candidates producing Certificates issued by the Competent Authorities in
        Telangana State alone are eligible to claim various reservations like SC/ST/BC/
        EWS/PH etc.
PARA-VI:
(1) Local Reservation (95%) is applicable as per Para-8 of G.O.Ms.No.124 General
Administration (SPF-MC) Department, dated :30.08.2018).
(2) Local Candidate as per Para-7 of G.O.Ms.No.124 General Administration (SPF-MC)
Department, Dated :30.08.2018:-
“(1) A candidate for direct recruitment to any post shall be regarded as a local candidate in
relation to a local area,-
    (a) in cases where a minimum educational qualification has been prescribed for recruitment
to the posts,-
    (i) if he has studied in an educational institution or educational institutions in such local area
for a period of not less than four consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in
which he appeared or, as the case may be, first appeared for the relevant qualifying
examination; or
                                                                                                     8


     (ii) where during the whole or any part of the four consecutive academic years ending with
the academic year in which he appeared or as the case may be first appeared for the relevant
qualifying examination he has not studied in any educational institution, if he has resided in that
local area for a period of not less than four years immediately preceding the date of
commencement of the qualifying examination in which he appeared, or as the case may be, first
appeared.
     (b) In cases where no minimum educational qualifications has been prescribed for
recruitment to the post, if he has resided in that local area for a period of not less than four
years immediately preceding the date on which the post is notified for recruitment.
Explanations:- For the purpose of this paragraph,-
     (i) ‘educational institution’ means a University or any educational institution recognized by
the State Government, a University or other competent authority;
     (ii) relevant qualifying examination in relation to a post means,-
           (a) the examination, a pass in which is the minimum educational qualification prescribed
for the post;
           (b) the Seventh Class examination or an examination declared by the State Government
to be equivalent to the Seventh Class examination; whichever is lower;
     (iii) in reckoning the consecutive academic years during which a candidate has studied, any
period of interruption of his study by reason of his failure to pass any examination shall be
disregarded;
     (iv) the question, whether any candidate for direct recruitment to any post has resided in any
local area shall be determined with reference to the places where the candidate actually resided
and not with reference to the residence of his parents or other guardian.
     (2) A candidate for direct recruitment to any post who is not regarded as a local candidate
under sub-paragraph (1) in relation to any local area shall,-
     (a) in cases where a minimum educational qualification has been prescribed for recruitment
to the post,-
     (i) If he has studied in educational institutions in the State for a period of not less than seven
consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he appeared or as the
case may be, first appeared for the relevant qualifying examination be regarded as a local
candidate in relation to,-
     (A) Such local area where he has studied for the maximum period out of the said period of
seven years; or
     (B) Where the periods of his study in two or more local areas are equal, such local areas
where he has studied last in such equal periods;
     (ii) If during the whole or any part of the seven consecutive academic years ending with the
academic year in which he appeared or as the case may be first appeared for the relevant
qualifying examination, he has not studied in the educational institutions in any local area, but
has resided in the State during the whole of the said period of seven years, be regarded as a
local candidate in relation to,-
     A) Such local area where he has resided for the maximum period out of the said period of
seven years; or
     (B) Where the periods of his residence in two or more local areas are equal, such local area
where he has resided last in such equal periods;
     (b) In cases where no minimum educational qualification has been prescribed for
recruitment to the post, if he has resided in the State for a period of not less than seven years
immediately preceding the date on which the post is notified for recruitment, be regarded as a
local candidate in relation to,-
     (i) such local area where he has resided for the maximum period out of the said period of
seven years; or
     (ii) where the periods of his residence in two or more local areas are equal such local area
where he has resided last in such equal periods.
     (c) In cases where Visually Handicapped and Hearing Handicapped persons studied in the
special schools meant for them, the native place of the parents of such Visually Handicapped
and Hearing Handicapped persons.”
3) The following are the Present Multi Zones in the Telangana State vide G.O.Ms. No. 124,
    G.A. (SPF-MC) Dept., Dated: 30/08/2018 and amended vide G.O.Ms. No. 128, G.A.
    (SPF-I) Dept., Dated: 30/06/2021 read with G.O.Rt.No.74, Revenue (DA-CMRF) Dept.,
    dt:12/08/2021:
                     Kumrambheem-Asifabad, Mancherial, Peddapalli, Jayashankar-
                     Bhupalapalli, Mulugu Districts
                     Adilabad, Nirmal, Nizamabad, Jagityal Districts
            Multi    Karimnagar, Rajanna-Sircilla, Siddipet, Medak, Kamareddy
           Zone- I   Districts
                     Bhadradri-Kothagudem,          Khammam,         Mahabubabad,
                     Hanamkonda (Warangal Urban), Warangal (Warangal Rural)
                     Districts
                                                                                                    9


                      Suryapet, Nalgonda, Yadadri-Bhongir, Jangaon Districts
            Multi     Medchal-Malkajgiri, Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, Sanga Reddy,
           Zone- II   Vikarabad Districts
                      Mahaboobnagar, Narayanpet, Jogulamba-Gadwal, Wanaparthi,
                      Nagarkurnool Districts

PARA-VII: SCHEME OF EXAMINATION:- The Scheme & Syllabus for the examination has
been shown in ANNEXURE-III.

PARA-VIII: RESOLVING OBJECTIONS RELATED TO QUESTIONS, KEY AND OTHER
MATTERS OF OBJECTIVE TEST:
i)   The Commission publishes the key on its website after conduct of the objective test. Any
     objections with regard to the questions / Key shall be filed within the stipulated period
     through the link provided in the TSPSC website, after publication of the key. The objections
     received physically in the form of representations or through emails are not entertained in
     any circumstances. Any objection(s) received after the last date for receipt of objections on
     key would not be entertained.
ii) The objections received in the prescribed proforma within due date will be referred to Expert
     Committee for opinion to take appropriate decision thereon by the Commission. As per
     decision of the Commission, final key will be hosted.
iii) Objections on final key shall not be entertained.
iv) The marks for the deleted questions, if any, will be awarded to each candidate
     proportionately based on his performance on the remaining questions and the marks would
     be considered upto 3rd decimal figure, to determine the merit of the candidates.
v) After completion of Examination, the Images of OMR Sheets will be hosted on the
     Commission’s Website www.tspsc.gov.in for reference. Candidates by entering the
     required Login credentials can download the Images of OMR Sheets. Candidates are
     advised to retain their Images of OMR Sheets for future purpose until completion of the
     recruitment process. Duplicate Images of OMR Sheets will not be issued under any
     circumstances.

PARA-IX: PROCEDURE OF SELECTION:

1) Pattern of Examination will be as per G.O. Ms. No. 55 General Administration (Ser.A)
   Department, Dt. 25/04/2022.
2) The Selection of Candidates for appointment to the posts will be made by Written
   Examination (Objective Type) by CBRT/ OMR Based and the Selection for the posts will be
   based on marks secured in the written examination.
3) Those candidates who qualify in the Written Examination in order of merit will be called for
   verification of Certificates, Community and Category wise for the vacancies available as
   required. The qualifying marks for selection of the candidates belonging to: OC, Sports
   men & EWS – not less than 40%, BCs - not less than 35% SCs, STs and PH – not less
   than 30%.
     N.B.: Mere securing minimum qualifying marks does not vest any right in a candidate for
     being considered for selection
4) In the event of SC and ST candidates not coming up for selection with the minimum marks
   prescribed above for selection, their selection shall be considered on the basis of marks with
   reference to their performance in the written examination irrespective of the marks secured.
5) The appearance in all the paper/papers at the Written Examination is compulsory. Absence
   in any of the paper/papers will automatically render his/her candidature for disqualification.
6) Candidates have to produce Original documents and other particulars on the day of
   verification itself. If candidate fails to produce any of the required original certificates and if
   the particulars furnished by him / her in the Application do not tally with the Original
   documents produced him / her, then his / her candidature will be rejected/disqualified
   without any further correspondence. Those candidates who are called for verification of
   certificates should furnish their order of preference of Multi Zones by exercising Web-
   Options and submit at the time of verification of certificates, which are final, failing which
   his/her candidature shall not be considered for further selection process. The selections will
   be confined only to the web options exercised by the candidates. Under no circumstances
   he/she will be considered for the posts /places where preference was not indicated.
7) The candidates will be selected and allotted to Department as per their merit and order of
   Preference (web-options) against the vacancies available.
                                                                                                10


8) The appointment of selected candidates will be subject to their being found medically fit in
   the appropriate Medical Examination, and if he/she is of sound health, active habits free
   from any bodily defect or infirmity.

PARA-X: DEBARMENT:
a) Candidates should make sure of their eligibility to the posts applied for and that the
   declaration made by them in the format of application regarding their eligibility is correct in
   all respects. Any candidate furnishing incorrect information or making false declaration
   regarding his/her eligibility at any stage or suppressing any information is liable to be
   debarred from appearing for any of the examinations conducted by the Commission, and for
   summarily rejection of candidature for this recruitment.
b) The Penal Provisions of T.S. Public Examinations (Prevention of Malpractices and Unfair
   means) Act, 1997 (Act No.25/1997) and as per the Rules of Procedure of TSPSC published
   in Telangana Gazette No: 60 dated 28/12/2015 in respect of this Notification shall be
   invoked if malpractice and unfair means are noticed at any stage of the Recruitment.
c) The Commission is vested with the constitutional duty of conducting recruitment and
   selection as per rules duly maintaining utmost secrecy and confidentiality in this process
   and any attempt by anyone causing or likely to cause breach of this constitutional duty in
   such manner or by such action as to violate or likely to violate the fair practices followed and
   ensured by the Commission will be sufficient cause for rendering such questionable means
   as ground for debarment and penal consequences as per law and rules and as may be
   decided by the Commission.
d) Any candidate is or has been found impersonating or resorting to any other irregular or
   improper means in connection with his / her candidature for selection or obtaining support of
   candidature by any means, such a candidate may in addition to rendering himself/ herself
   liable to criminal prosecution, will be debarred permanently from any exam or selection held
   by any Public Service Commission in the country.
e) If he/she himself/herself or through relations or friends or any others has canvassed or
   endeavored to enlist for his candidature extraneous support, whether from official or non-
   official sources for appointment to any State Service or Subordinate Service shall be
   disqualified.
f)   The applicants are not allowed to bring any Electronic devices or Gadgets such as Smart /
     Mobile Phones, Calculators, Tablets, iPad, Bluetooth, Pagers, Programmable Devices or
     Storage Media like Pen-drive, Smart Watches, Camera etc., or any other equipment or
     related accessories either in working or switched off mode capable of being used as a
     communication device during the examination. Use of Electronic devices or Gadgets in the
     examination hall shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less
     than three years but which may extend upto seven years and with fine which shall not be
     less than Rupees Five Thousand, but which may extend upto Rupees One Lakh. Loaning
     and interchanging of articles among the applicants is not permitted in the examination hall
     and any form of malpractice will not be permitted in the exam hall and applicants are
     advised not to bring any of the banned items including mobile phones to the venue of the
     examination, as arrangement for safe – keeping cannot be assured.
PARA-XI:- (A) Please read the following Annexures appended to the Notification before filling
the application form.
           Annexure-I     Breakup of Vacancies
           Annexure-II    Payment Gateway
           Annexure-III   Scheme and Syllabus
           Annexure-IV    Instruction to the Candidates
           Annexure-V     List of Communities
           Annexure-VI    List of the recognized sports

(B) MEMORANDUM OF MARKS:- After Publication of results, the marks list (total marks) of the
    successful candidates will be displayed on the Commission’s Website. However,
    Memorandum of Marks can be obtained after one month from the date of declaration of
    selection list in TSPSC website on payment of Rs.200/- (Rupees Two Hundred Only)
    through IPO/DD in favour of the Secretary, T.S. Public Service Commission, Hyderabad, for
    a period of Three Months only. Rejected, Invalid, disqualified, ineligible candidates will not
    be issued any Memorandum of Marks and fees paid by such candidates, if any, will be
    forfeited to Government account, without any correspondence in this regard. Requests for
    memorandum of marks, will not be entertained until the recruitment process is finalized.
                                                                                                11


PARA XII: SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES:

        Candidates are directed to follow the Commission’s Website (www.tspsc.gov.in)
regularly to know the latest developments of this Recruitment and any changes/ Modifications/
Addendum/ Corrigendum, dates of Examination, calling of candidates for verification of
Certificates/ Results etc. Candidates may note that individual communication is not possible.
Hence, they must regularly visit the TSPSC website for updates such as Edit option, Merit List,
List of candidates shortlisted for Certificate Verification, schedule of certificate verification /
Medical board, etc.
Candidates are advised to go through the Instructions to Candidates enclosed to this
Notification at Annexure-IV.

PARA-XIII: COMMISSION’S DECISION TO BE FINAL:
        The decision of the Commission in all aspects and all respects pertaining to the
application and its acceptance or rejection as the case may be, conduct of examination and at
all consequent stages culminating in the selection or otherwise of any candidate shall be final in
all respects and binding on all concerned, under the powers vested with it under Article 315 and
320 of the Constitution of India. Commission also reserves its right to alter and modify time and
conditions laid down in the notification for conducting the various stages up to selection or
withdraw the Notification at any time, duly intimating details thereof to all concerned, as
warranted by any unforeseen circumstances arising during the course of this process, or as
deemed necessary by the Commission at any stage.

HYDERABAD                                                                             Sd/-
DATE: 04/08/2022                                                                   SECRETARY
                                                                     ANNEXURE – I

                    BREAK-UP OF VACANCY POSITION FOR THE POST OF DIVISIONAL ACCOUNTS OFFICER (WORKS) GRADE-II
                                                           IN DIRECTOR OF WORKS ACCOUNTS

                                                             (GENERAL RECRUITMENT)


                                              OC     EWS     BC-A    BC-B    BC-C    BC-D     BC-E    SC          ST       PH    SPORTS TOTAL
                                      MZ                                                                                                           GRAND
       NAME OF THE POST
                                                                                                                                                   TOTAL
                                             G   W   G   W   G   W   G   W   G   W G     W    G   W   G   W   G    W   G    W    G   W   G    W

                                                                                                                            01
                                      MZ-I   07 03 02 01 01 01 01 01 01          -   -   01   -   01 03 02 01 01       -         -   -   16   12    28
                                                                                                                            VH
Divisional Accounts Officer (Works)
       Grade –II in Director of
         Works Accounts
                                                                                                                            01
                                      MZ-II 06 03 01 01 01 01 01 01 01           -   -   01   -   01 02 02 01 01       -         -   -   13   12    25
                                                                                                                            VH



                                  TOTAL 13 06 03 02 02 02 02 02 02               -   -   02       02 05 04 02 02       -    02   -   -   29   24    53
                                    ANNEXURE-II

                  LIST OF BANKS FOR MAKING ONLINE PAYMENT

Sl.                                        Sl.
              Name of the Bank                            Name of the Bank
No.                                        No.
 1    Andhra Pragathi Grameena Bank        35     Kalyan Janata Sahakari Bank
 2    A U Small Finance Bank               36     Karnataka Bank Ltd
 3    Bandhan Bank                         37     Karnataka Gramin Bank
 4    Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait           38     Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank
 5    Bank of Baroda                       39     Karur Vysya Bank
 6    Bank of India                        40     Kotak Bank
 7    Bank of Maharashtra                  41     Laxmi Vilas Bank
 8    Bassien Catholic Coop Bank           42     Maharashtra Gramin Bank
 9    Canara Bank                          43     Mehsana urban Co-op Bank
10    Capital Small Finance Bank           44     NKGSB Co-op Bank
11    Catholic Syrian Bank                 45     North East Small Finance Bank Ltd
                                                  Nutan Nagarik Sahakari Bank
12    Central Bank of India                 46
                                                  Limited
13    City Union Bank                       47    Punjab & Sind Bank
14    Cosmos Bank                           48    Punjab National Bank
15    DCB Bank                              49    RBL Bank Limited
16    Deutsche Bank                         50    Saraswat Bank
17    Dhanlakshmi Bank                      51    SBM Bank India
                                                  Shivalik Mercantile Cooperative Bank
18    Digibank by DBS                       52
                                                  Ltd
19    Equitas Small Finance Bank            53    South Indian Bank
20    ESAF Small Finance Bank               54    State Bank of India
21    Federal Bank                          55    SVC Co-operative Bank Ltd
22    Fincare Bank                          56    Tamil Nadu State Co-operative Bank
      Gujarat State Co-operative Bank
23                                          57    Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Ltd.
      Limited
                                                  The Kalupur Commercial Co-
24    HDFC Bank                             58
                                                  Operative Bank
                                                  The Surat People’s Co-operative
25    HSBC Retail Net Banking               59
                                                  Bank Limited
26    ICICI Bank                            60    The Sutex Co-op Bank Ltd
27    IDBI Bank                             61    T J S B Bank
28    IDFC FIRST Bank                       62    UCO Bank
29    Indian Bank                           63    Union Bank of India
30    Indian Overseas Bank                  64    Utkarsh Small Finance Bank
31    Indus-Ind Bank                        65    Varachha Co-operative Bank Limited
32    Jammu & Kashmir Bank                  66    YES Bank Ltd
33    Jana Small Finance Bank               67    Zoroastrian Co-Operative Bank Ltd
34    Janata Sahakari Bank Ltd Pune
                                                                                                14


                                            ANNEXURE-III

      SCHEME AND SYLLABUS FOR THE POST OF DIVISIONAL ACCOUNTS OFFICER
              (WORKS) GRADE-II IN DIRECTOR OF WORKS ACCOUNTS


                                     Scheme of Examination

                   Written Examination              No. of          Duration        Maximum
                    (Objective type)               Questions        (Minutes)        Marks

                      General Studies and
      Paper – I                                        150               150         150
                      General Abilities

                      Arithmetic and Mensuration
      Paper - II      (S.S.C. Standard )               150               150         300


                                                             Total Marks             450


                   Name of the papers                      Language of Examination

      Paper-I: General Studies and                               Bilingual i.e.,
      General Abilities                                        English and Telugu

      Paper-II: Arithmetic and Mensuration                       Bilingual i.e.,
      (S.S.C. Standard )                                       English and Telugu



                                             SYLLABUS

                          Paper-I: General Studies and General Abilities

1.       Current affairs – Regional, National and International.
2.       International Relations and Events.
3.       General Science; India’s Achievements in Science and Technology.
4.       Environmental issues; Disaster Management- Prevention and Mitigation Strategies.
5.       Economic and Social Development of India and Telangana.
6.       Physical, Social and Economic Geography of India.
7.       Physical, Social and Economic Geography and Demography of Telangana.
8.       Socio-economic, Political and Cultural History of Modern India with special emphasis
         on Indian National Movement.
9.       Socio-economic, Political and Cultural History of Telangana with special emphasis on
         Telangana Statehood Movement and formation of Telangana state.
10.      Indian Constitution; Indian Political System; Governance and Public Policy.
11.      Social Exclusion; Rights issues such as Gender, Caste, Tribe, Disability etc. and
         inclusive policies.
12.      Society, Culture, Heritage, Arts and Literature of Telangana.
13.      Policies of Telangana State.
14.      Logical Reasoning; Analytical Ability and Data Interpretation.

15.      Basic English. (10th Class Standard)
                                                                                               15


                   Paper-II : Arithmetic and Mensuration (SSC Standard)

Arithmetic (SSC Standard)

   1. Number System – Rational and irrational numbers – decimal representations – real
      numbers-modulus of real numbers – inequalities involving modulus – prime and
      composite numbers – least common multiple and greatest common devisor – surds and
      logarithms.

   2. Ratio and Proportion – Averages – percentages – profit and loss – Discounts – Simple
      and compound interests – partnerships – Time and distance – Time and work – Clocks
      and Calendar.

   3. Polynomials and Progressions - Special products – factorization – Remainder
      theorem – Quadratic equations – Zeros of a cubic polynomial – algebraic expression-
      Arithmetic progression – Geometric progression.

   4. Sets – fundamental operations on sets – System of linear equations in two variables.

   5. Statistics and Probability – Frequency table – Mean, Median and Mode – simple
      problems on probability.


Mensuration (SSC Standard)

   1. Areas of square, rectangles, triangles – quadrilaterals – parallelogram and trapezium.

   2. Geometry of triangles and polygons – identical triangles, similarity of triangles –
      Pythagoras theorem and applications.
   3. Surface area and volumes of solids such as Sphere, Cylinder, Cone and Prism.

   4. Geometry of Circles –Tangents and Secants of a circle.

   5. Coordinates in two-dimension plane – Distance formula – area of triangle – Equation of
      a straight line in different forms – Applications – Trigonometric – ratios and their values
      for special angles – simple trigonometric – identities – Applications of Trigonometry.
                                                                                                         16


                                            ANNEXURE – IV

                                 INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES:

    A) GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES

1) Candidates are directed to follow the Commission’s Website (www.tspsc.gov.in) regularly to
   Know the latest developments regarding the Recruitment, dates of Examination, calling of
   candidates for verification of Certificates/ Medical Boards, Results etc.
2) EDIT OPTION TO THE CANDIDATES: The applicants should follow the TSPSC website regularly
   to utilize the edit option to rectify the mistakes viz., Biodata particulars/Data corrections /
   Omissions etc., in the application, if the facility is given by the Commission. If the edit option
   facility is not utilized by the candidates, the TSPSC is not responsible and the data already
   available is treated as final. After the due date, Data corrections through Online/Paper
   representations or Corrections on the Nominal Rolls in the examination hall will not be accepted
   under any circumstances. No correspondence will be entertained in this matter.
3) The candidates must note that his/her admission to the examination is strictly provisional. The
   mere fact that an Admission to the examination does not imply that his/her candidature has been
   finally cleared by the Commission or that the entries made by the candidate in his/her application
   have been accepted by the Commission as true and correct. The candidates have to be found
   suitable after verification of original certificates; and other eligibility criteria. The Applicants have
   to upload his/her scanned recent colour passport photo and signature to the Application Form.
   Failure to produce the same photograph, if required, at the time of verification, may lead to
   disqualification.
4) The candidates are not allowed to bring any Electronic devices such as Smart / Mobile phones,
   Calculators, tablets, iPad, Bluetooth, pagers, watches to examination centre. Loaning and
   interchanging of articles among the candidates is not permitted in the examination hall and any
   form of malpractice will not be permitted in the exam hall.
5) The candidates are expected to behave in an orderly and disciplined manner while writing the
   examination. If any candidate takes away Answer Sheet of OMR based examination, the
   candidature will be rejected. In case of impersonation/ disorder/ rowdy behavior during
   Examination, cases shall be booked in the Police Station concerned, apart from disqualifying his /
   her candidature.
6) Candidates trying to use unfair means shall be disqualified from the selection. No
   correspondence whatsoever will be entertained from the candidates.
7) The Commission is also empowered to invoke the penal provisions of the T.S. Public
   Examinations (Prevention of Malpractices and Unfair means) Act, 1997 (Act No.25/1997) for
   matters connected therewith or incidental thereto and as per the Rules of Procedure of TSPSC
   published in Telangana Gazette No: 60 dated 28/12/2015 in respect of this Notification.
8) (i) The candidates who are totally blind are allowed to write the examination with the help of
       scribe provided by TSPSC and 20 minutes extra time is permitted to them per hour.
    (ii) Scribe will be provided by TSPSC to those candidates who do not have both the upper limbs
         for Orthopedically Handicapped. However, no extra time will be granted to them.
   (iii) An extra time of 20 minutes per hour is also permitted for the candidates with locomotor
         disability and CEREBRAL PALSY where dominant (writing) extremity is affected for the
         extent slowing the performance of function (Minimum of 40% impairment). Scribe is allowed
         to such candidates also.
   (iv) The scribe should be from an academic discipline other than that of the candidate and the
        academic qualification of the scribe should be one grade lower than the stipulated eligibility
        criteria.
    (v) The candidate as well as the scribe will have to give a suitable undertaking confirming the
        rules applicable.

B) INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES REGARDING OMR BASED EXAMINATION

1) The candidates have to report to the examination venue at least 30 minutes before the
   commencement of examination, to record their Photo Image/thumb impression on Biometric
   system.
2) The candidate should satisfy the Invigilator of his identity with reference to the Signature and
   Photograph available on the Nominal Roll and Hall Ticket.
3) The candidates should go through the instructions given on the cover page of test booklet and
   OMR Answer Sheet which will be provided to him/her in the examination hall and carefully write
   his/her Hall Ticket Number, Subject / Paper Code, Booklet Series, Name of the Examination
   Centre etc., on the OMR Answer Sheet.
                                                                                                      17


4) The candidates have to USE BALL POINT PEN (BLUE/BLACK) ONLY to fill up relevant columns
   on the Answer Sheet including MARKING OF THE ANSWERS. Bubbling by Pencil / Ink Pen /
   Gel Pen is not permitted in the examination.

5) The candidate must write all the relevant columns in the Answer sheet and also encode
   (bubble) correctly such as all Ticket Number, Question Booklet Series, Paper Code, Venue
   Code on the OMR Answer Sheet carefully and to Sign in the space provided for on Side-1 of
   the Answer Sheet and ensure the Signature of the Invigilator, etc., on it, failing which the
   Answer sheet will be rejected. Use of whitener / eraser / chalk-powder etc., is strictly
   prohibited on the OMR Answer sheet/ Question Paper.
6) The OMR Answer sheets are to be scanned (valued) with Optical Mark Reader. The Digital copy
   of OMR Answer Sheets will be made available on the Commission’s website immediately after
   completion of the image scanning.
7) No candidate should leave the examination hall till expiry of fulltime. After writing the
   examination the candidate has to handover the OMR Answer sheet to the invigilator in the
   examination hall. If any candidate takes away the OMR Answer sheet, his/her candidature will
   be rejected.
8) The Commission would be analyzing the responses of a candidate with other appeared
   candidates to detect patterns of similarity. If it is suspected that the responses have been shared
   and the scores obtained are not genuine/ valid, the Commission will invalidate the OMR Answer
   Sheet and cancel his/ her candidature.

C) INSTRUCTIONS FOR CANDIDATES REGARDING CBRT EXAMINATION
   1) Candidates shall report at the venue one hour (60 minutes) before the Commencement of
       Examination as the candidates have to undergo certain procedural formalities required for
       CBRT examination.
   2) Date and Time of the Examination are mentioned in the Hall-Ticket
   3) The examination link with the login screen will already be available on your system. Please
       inform the invigilator if this is not the case.
   4) 10 minutes prior to the exam, you’ll be prompted to login. Please type the Login ID (H T No.)
       and the Password (Password for Candidate will be given on exam day) to proceed further.
   5) Invigilator will announce the password at 09.50 AM and 02.20 PM in cases if Examination is
       at 10:00 A.M and 2:30 P.M respectively.
   6) Copying or noting down questions and/or options is not allowed. Severe action will be taken
       if any candidate is found noting down the questions and/or options.
   7) After logging in, the following will be displayed on your Computer screen:
            Profile Information - Check the details & click on “I Confirm” or “I Deny”.
            Detailed exam instructions - Please read and understand thoroughly.
            Please click on the “I am ready to Begin” button.
   8) After reading the instructions, you have to use the mouse to answer the multiple-choice type
       questions having FOUR alternative answer choices.
   9) To answer any numerical answer type question, you need to use the virtual numeric key pad
       and the mouse.
   10) On the online exam question screen, the timer will display the balance time remaining for the
       completion of exam.
   11) The question numbers are color coded and of different shapes based on the process of
       recording your response:
        White (Square) - For un-attempted questions.
        Red (Inverted Pentagon) - For unanswered questions.
        Green (Pentagon) - For attempted questions.
        Violet (Circle) - Question marked by candidate for review to be answered later.
        Violet (Circle with a Tick mark) - Question answered but marked by candidate for review.
   12) After answering a question, click the SAVE & NEXT button to save your response and move
       onto the next question.
   13) Click on Mark for Review & NEXT to mark your question for review, and then go to the next
       question.
   14) To clear any answer chosen for a particular question, please click on the CLEAR
       RESPONSE button.
   15) A summary of each section, (i.e. questions answered, not answered, marked for review) is
       available for each section. You have to place the cursor over the section name for this
       summary.
   16) In case you wish to view a larger font size, please inform the Invigilator. On the Invigilator's
       confirmation, click on the font size you wish to select. The font size will be visible on the top.
   17) You may view INSTRUCTIONS at any point of time during exam, by clicking on the
       INSTRUCTIONS button on your screen.
   18) The SUBMIT button will be activated after 150 Minutes. It will continue for an additional 50
       Minutes for PH candidates eligible for compensatory time. Please keep checking the timer on
       your screen.
   19) In case of automatic or emergency log out, all your attempted questions and their responses
       will be saved. And also, the exam will start from the time where it had stopped.
                                                                                                  18


20) You will be provided a blank sheet for rough work. Do write your Login ID and Password on
    it. Please ensure that you return it to the invigilator at the end of the exam after tearing ONLY
    the password from it.
21) Please don’t touch the key board as your exam ID will get locked. If your ID gets locked,
    please inform your invigilator who will help in unlocking your ID and then you can continue
    with the exam.
22) Please inform the invigilator in case of any technical issues.
23) Please do not talk to or disturb other candidates.
24) In case you are carrying articles other than the admit card, photo identity proof and pen,
    please leave them outside the exam room.
25) These are model instructions and candidates have to follow latest instructions issued along
    with Hall tickets

                                            ** * **
                                                                                               19


                                         ANNEXURE-V

                    LIST OF SCHEDULED CASTES AND SCHEDULED TRIBES

(G.O. MS. NO. 5 Scheduled Castes Development (POA.A2) Dept., Dt. 08/08/2015 read with G.O. Ms. No.
   11, Scheduled Castes Development (POA.A2) Dept., Dt. 17/09/2014 and G.O. Ms. No. 2 Scheduled
                        Castes Development (POA.A2) Dept., Dt. 22.01.2015)

                                 LIST OF SCHEDULED CASTES

   1. Adi Andhra
   2. Adi Dravida
   3. Anamuk
   4. Aray Mala
   5. Arundhatiya
   6. Arwa Mala
   7. Bariki
   8. Bavuri
   9. Beda (Budga) Jangam
   10. Bindla
   11. Byagara, Byagari
   12. Chachati
   13. Chalavadi
   14. Chamar, Mochi, Muchi, Chamar-Ravidas, Chamar- Rohidas
   15. Chambhar
   16. Chandala
   17. Dakkal, Dokkalwar
   18. Dandasi
   19. Dhor
   20. Dom, Dombara, Paidi, Pano
   21. Ellamalawar, Yellammalawandlu
   22. Ghasi, Haddi, Relli, Chanchandi
   23. Godari
   24. Gosangi
   25. Holeya
   26. Holeya Dasari
   27. Jaggali
   28. Jambuvulu
   29. Kolupulvandlu, Pambada, Pambanda, Pambala
   30. Madasi Kuruva, Madari Kuruva
   31. Madiga
   32. Madiga Dasu, Mashteen
   33. Mahar
   34. Mala, Mala Ayawaru
   35. Mala Dasari
   36. Mala Dasu
   37. Mala Hannai
   38. Malajangam
   39. Mala Masti
   40. Mala Sale, Nethani
   41. Mala Sanyasi
   42. Mang
   43. Mang Garodi
   44. Manne
   45. Mashti
   46. Matangi
   47. Mehtar
   48. Mitha Ayyalvar
   49. Mundala
   50. Paky, Moti, Thoti
   51. Pamidi
   52. Panchama, Pariah
   53. Relli
   54. Samagara
   55. Samban
   56. Sapru
   57. Sindhollu, Chindollu
   58. Yatala
   59. Valluvan
                                                                                       20


                              LIST OF SCHEDULED TRIBES

   1.  Andh, Sadhu Andh
   2.  Bagata
   3.  Bhil
   4.  Chenchu
   5.  Gadabas, Bodo Gadaba, Gutob Gadaba, Kallayi Gadaba, Parangi Gadaba, Kathera
       Gadaba, Kapu Gadaba
   6. Gond, Naikpod, Rajgond, Koitur
   7. Goudu (in the Agency tracts)
   8. Hill Reddis
   9. Jatapus
   10. Kammara
   11. Kattunayakan
   12. Kolam, Kolawar
   13. Konda Dhoras, Kubi
   14. Konda Kapus
   15. Kondareddis
   16. Kondhs, Kodi, Kodhu, Desaya Kondhs, Dongria Kondhs, Kuttiya Kondhs, Tikiria Kondhs,
       Yenity Kondhs, Kuvinga
   17. Kotia, Bentho Oriya, Bartika, Dulia, Holya, Sanrona, Sidhopaiko
   18. Koya, Doli Koya, Gutta Koya, Kammara Koya, Musara Koya, Oddi Koya, Pattidi Koya,
       Rajah, Rasha Koya, Lingadhari Koya (ordinary), Kottu Koya, Bhine Koya, Rajkoya
   19. Kulia
   20. Manna Dhora
   21. Mukha Dhora, Nooka Dhora
   22. Nayaks (in the Agency tracts)
   23. Pardhan
   24. Porja, Parangiperja
   25. Reddi Dhoras
   26. Rona, Rena
   27. Savaras, Kapu Savaras, Maliya Savaras, Khutto Savaras
   28. Sugalis, Lambadis, Banjara
   29. Thoti (in Adilabad, Hyderabad, Karimnagar, Khammam, Mahbubnagar, Medak,
       Nalgonda, Nizamabad and Warangal districts)
   30. Yenadis, Chella Yenadi, Kappala Yenadi, Manchi Yenadi, Reddi Yenadi
   31. Yerukulas, Koracha, Dabba Yerukula, Kunchapuri Yerukula, Uppu Yerukula
   32. Nakkala, Kurvikaran.

            LIST OF SOCIALLY AND EDUCATIONALLY BACKWARD CLASSES

 As per G.O. Ms. No. 16 Backward Classes Welfare (OP) Department, Dated:11.03.2015 and
 read with G.O.MS.No. 34, Backward Classes Welfare (OP) Department, Dated: 08/10/2015,
G.O. Ms. No. 4 Backward Classes Welfare (OP) Department, Dated: 30/01/2016, G.O.Ms.No. 3
               Backward Classes Welfare (B) Department, Dated: 09-09-2020

                                     STATE LIST OF BCs
                        (List of Backward Classes of Telangana State)
                                          GROUP-A
        (Aboriginal Tribes, Vimuktha Jathis, Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic Tribes etc.)

1 Agnikulakshatriya, Palli, Vadabalija, Bestha, Jalari, Gangavar, Gangaputra, Goondla,
    Vanyakulakshatriya (Vannekapu, Vannereddi, Pallikapu, Pallireddi) Neyyala, Pattapu.
2 Balasanthu, Bahurupi
3 *[Bandara]
4 Budabukkala
5 Rajaka (Chakali, Vannar)
6 Dasari (formerly engaged in Bikshatana i.e., Beggary)
7 Dommara
8 Gangiredlavaru
9 Jangam (whose traditional occupation is begging)
10 Jogi
11 Katipapala
12 *[Korcha]
13 Lambada or Banjara in Telangana area (deleted and included in ST list vide.
    G.O.Ms.No.149, SW, Dt.03.05.1978)
14 Medari or Mahendra
15 Mondivaru, Mondibanda, Banda
                                                                                           21


16 Nayi-Brahmin/Nayee-Brahmin (Mangali), Mangala and Bhajantri
17 Nakkala (deleted vide. G.O.Ms.No.21, BCW (C2) Dept., Dt.20.06.2011, since it is included in
    the list of Scheduled Tribes at Sl.No.34 vide. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
    Order (Amendment) Act, 2002 (Central Act No.10 of 2003)
18 Vamsha Raj / Pitchiguntla
19 Pamula
20 Pardhi (Nirshikari)
21 Pambala
22 Peddammavandlu, Devaravandlu, Yellammavandlu, Mutyalammavandlu, Dammali /
    Dammala / Dammula / Damala
23 Veeramushti (Nettikotala), Veerabhadreeya
24 Valmiki Boya (Boya, Bedar, Kirataka, Nishadi, Yellapi, Pedda Boya), Talayari, Chunduvallu
    (Yellapi and Yellapu are one and the same as clarified vide. G.O.Ms.No.61, BCW (M1)
    Dept., Dt.05.12.1996)
25 Yerukalas in Telangana area (deleted and included at Sl.No.31 in the list of STs)
26 Gudala
27 Kanjara – Bhatta
28 *[Kalinga]
29 Kepmare or Reddika
30 Mondepatta
31 Nokkar
32 Pariki Muggula
33 Yata
34 Chopemari
35 Kaikadi
36 Joshinandiwalas
37 Odde (Oddilu, Vaddi, Vaddelu), Vaddera, Vaddabhovi, Vadiyaraj, Waddera
38 Mandula
39 Mehtar (Muslim)
40 Kunapuli
41 Patra
42 *[Kurakula]
43 *[Pondara]
44 *[Samanthula /Samantha/ Sountia / Sauntia]
45 Pala-Ekari, Ekila, Vyakula, Ekiri, Nayanivaru, Palegaru, Tolagari, Kavali (area confined to
    Hyderabad and Rangareddy Districts only)
46 Rajannala, Rajannalu (area confined to Karimnagar, Warangal, Nizamabad and Adilabad
    Districts only)
47 Bukka Ayyavars
48 Gotrala
49 Kasikapadi / Kasikapudi (area confined to Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Nizamabad,
    Mahaboobnagar and Adilabad Districts only)
50 Siddula
51 Sikligar/ Saikalgar
52 Poosala (included vide. G.O.Ms.No.16, BCW(C2) Dept., Dt.19.02.2009 by deleting from
    Sl.No.24 under Group-D)
53 *[Aasadula / Asadula]
54 *[Keuta / Kevuto / Keviti]
55 Orphan and Destitute Children who have lost their parents before reaching the age of ten
    and are destitute; and who have nobody else to take care of them either by law or custom;
    and also who are admitted into any of the schools or orphanages run by the Government or
    recognised by the Government.
56 Addapuvaru
57 Bagothula/ Bhagavathula
58 Bail Kammara/ Ghisadi/ Gadiya Lohar
59 Enooti/ Yenetivallu
60 Ganjikuti/ Ganjikutivaru
61 Gouda Jetti
62 Kakipadagala
63 Patamvaru/ Masaiahlu
64 Odd/ Od/ Oad
65 Sonnayila/ Sannayila/ Sannayollu
66 Sri Kshatriya Ramajogi/ Ramajogi/ Ramajogula
67 Theracheerala/ Telsoori/ Baikani
68 Tholubommalatavaru/ Boppala
                                                                                         22


                                        GROUP-B
                                    (Vocational Groups)
1 *[Achukatlavandlu]
2 Aryakshatriya, Chittari, Giniyar, Chitrakara, Nakhas
3 Devanga
4 Goud [Ediga, Gouda (Gamalla), Kalalee, Gounda, [*Settibalija of Visakhapatnam, East
    Godavari, West Godavari and Krishna districts] and Srisayana (Segidi)
5 Dudekula, Laddaf, Pinjari or Noorbash
6 Gandla, Telikula, Devathilakula
7 Jandra
8 Kummara or Kulala, Salivahana
9 Karikalabhakthulu, Kaikolan or Kaikala (Sengundam or Sengunther)
10 Karnabhakthulu
11 Kuruba or Kuruma
12 *[Nagavaddilu]
13 Neelakanthi
14 Patkar (Khatri)
15 Perika (Perika Balija, Puragiri kshatriya)
16 Nessi or Kurni
17 Padmasali (Sali, Salivan, Pattusali, Senapathulu, Thogata Sali)
18 Srisayana (Segidi) (deleted vide. G.O.Ms.No.63, BCW (M1) Dept., Dt.11.12.1996 and added
    to Sl.No.4 of Group-B)
19 Swakulasali
20 Thogata, Thogati or Thogataveerakshatriya
21 Viswabrahmin (Ausula, Kamsali, Kammari, Kanchari, Vadla or Vadra or Vadrangi and Silpis),
    Viswakarma
22 *[Kunchiti / Vakkaliga / Vakkaligara / Kunchitiga]
23 Lodh/ Lodhi/ Lodha (area confined to Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Khammam and Adilabad
    Districts only)
24 Bondili
25 Are Marathi, Maratha (Non-Brahmins), Arakalies and Surabhi Natakalavallu
26 Neeli (included vide. G.O.Ms.No. 43, BCW (C2) Dept., Dt.07.08.2008 by deleting from Group
    D at Sl.No.22)
27 Budubunjala / Bhunjwa / Bhadbhunja (area confined to Hyderabad and Rangareddy Districts
    only)
28 *[Gudia / Gudiya]

                                         GROUP-C

 Scheduled Castes converts to Christianity and their progeny

                                         GROUP-D
                                      (Other Classes)
1 *[Agaru]
2 Arekatika, Katika, Are-Suryavamshi
3 *[Atagara]
4 Bhatraju
5 Chippolu (Mera)
6 *[Gavara]
7 *[Godaba]
8 Hatkar
9 *[Jakkala]
10 Jingar
11 *[Kandra]
12 Koshti
13 Kachi
14 Surya Balija (Kalavanthula), Ganika
15 Krishnabalija (Dasari, Bukka)
16 *[Koppulavelamas]
17 Mathura
18 Mali (Bare, Barai, Marar and Tamboli)
19 Mudiraj, Mutrasi, Tenugollu
20 Munnurukapu
21 *[Nagavasam (Nagavamsa)]
22 Nelli (deleted vide. G.O.Ms.No.43, BCW(C2) Dept., Dt.07.08.2008 and added at Sl.No.26 in
    Group 'B')
23 *[Polinati Velamas of Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam districts]
                                                                                            23


24 Poosala caste (deleted vide. G.O.Ms.No.16, BCW(C2) Dept., Dt.19.02.2009 and included at
    S.No.52 under Group-A)
25 Passi
26 Rangarez or Bhavasara Kshatriya
27 Sadhuchetty
28 Satani (Chattadasrivaishnava)
29 Tammali (Non-Brahmins) (Shudra caste) whose traditional occupation is playing musical
    instruments, vending of flowers and giving assistance in temple service but not
    Shivarchakars
30 *[Turupukapus or Gajulakapus]
31 Uppara or Sagara
32 Vanjara (Vanjari)
33 Yadava (Golla)
34 Are, Arevallu and Arollu
35 *[Sadara / Sadaru]
36 *[Arava]
37 Ayyaraka (area confined to Khammam and Warangal Districts only)
38 Nagaralu (area confined to Hyderabad and Rangareddy Districts only)
39 Aghamudian, Aghamudiar, Agamudivellalar and Agamudimudaliar (including Thuluva
    Vellalas) (area confined to Hyderabad and Rangareddy Districts only)
40 *[Beri Vysya / Beri Chetty]
41 *[Atirasa]
42 Sondi / Sundi
43 Varala
44 Sistakaranam
45 Lakkamarikapu
46 Veerashaiva Lingayat / Lingabalija
47 Kurmi
48 Aheer/ Aheer Yadav
49 Govili/Govlii/ Gouli/Gavli
50 Kulla Kadagi/ Kulle Kadigi/ Chittepu
51Sarollu/Soma Vamsha Kshatriya

                                        GROUP-E
                (Socially and Educationally Backward Classes of Muslims)
    (Subject to outcome of Civil Appeal No(s).2628-2637/2010 etc., pending before the
                             Hon'ble Supreme Court of India)

1 Achchukattalavandlu, Singali, Singamvallu, Achchupanivallu, Achchukattuvaru,
Achukatlavandlu
2 Attar Saibulu, Attarollu
3 Dhobi Muslim/ Muslim Dhobi/ Dhobi Musalman, Turka Chakla or Turka Sakala, Turaka
  Chakali, Tulukka Vannan, Tsakalas, Sakalas or Chakalas, Muslim Rajakas
4 Faqir, Fhakir Budbudki, Ghanti Fhakir, Ghanta Fhakirlu, Turaka Budbudki, Darvesh, Fakeer
5 Garadi Muslim, Garadi Saibulu, Pamulavallu, Kani-Kattuvallu, Garadollu, Garadiga
6 Gosangi Muslim, Phakeer Sayebulu
7 Guddi Eluguvallu, Elugu Bantuvallu, Musalman Keelu Gurralavallu
8 Hajam, Nai, Nai Muslim, Navid
9 Labbi, Labbai, Labbon, Labba
10 Pakeerla, Borewale, Deera Phakirlu, Bonthala
11 Qureshi, Kureshi/ Khureshi, Khasab, Marati Khasab, Muslim Katika, Khatik Muslim
12 Shaik/ Sheikh
13 Siddi, Yaba, Habshi, Jasi
14 Turaka Kasha, Kakkukotte Zinka Saibulu, Chakkitakanevale, Terugadu Gontalavaru,
  Thirugatigantla, Rollaku Kakku Kottevaru, Pattar Phodulu, Chakketakare, Thuraka Kasha
___________________________________________________________________________
    * omitted vide G.O Ms.No.3, BCW(OP) Dept., Dated:14.08.2014

N.B.:1)The above list is for information and subject to confirmation with reference to
       G.O.Ms.No.58, SW(J) Department, dated 12.05.1997 and time to time orders.
    2) On account of any reason whatsoever in case of any doubt/ dispute arising in the matter
       of community status (SC/ST/BC/OC) of any candidate, subject to satisfaction with regard
       to relevant Rules and Regulations in force the decision of the Commission shall be final
       in all such cases.
                                                                                        24


                                     ANNEXURE – VI

     List of recognized sports disciplines for Two Percent (2%) reservation in Direct
   Recruitment in Government Departments / Govt. Institutions as per G.O. Ms. No. 74,
     Youth Advancement, Tourism & Culture (Sports) Department Dated:09-08-2012


(1) FOOTBALL
(2) HOCKEY
(3) VOLLEYBALL
(4) HANDBALL
(5) BASKET BALL
(6) TENNIS
(7) TABLE TENNIS
(8) SHUTTLE BADMINTON
(9) KABBADI
(10) ATHLETICS
(11) SWIMMING
(12) GYMNASTICS
(13) WEIGHTLIFTING
(14) WRESTLING
(15) BOXING
(16) CYCLING
(17) ROWING
(18) SHOOTING
(19) FENCING
(20) ROLLER SKATING
(21) SAILING / YATCHING
(22) ARCHERY
(23) CRICKET
(24) CHESS
(25) KHO-KHO
(26) JUDO
(27) TEAKWANDO
(28) SOFTBALL
(29) BODY BUILDING (Uniform Services like Police, Excise etc).




                                          ** * **
