            TELANGANA STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION: HYDERABAD
                         NOTIFICATION NO. 20/2022, DATED: 07/12/2022
 LECTURERS IN GOVERNMENT POLYTECHNICS IN TECHNICAL EDUCATION SERVICE
                                    (GENERAL RECRUITMENT)
PARA – I:

1) Applications are invited Online from qualified applicants through the proforma Application to
   be made available on Commission’s website (https://www.tspsc.gov.in) to the posts of
   Lecturers in Government Polytechnics in Technical education service in the State of
   Telangana.

   i) Submission of ONLINE applications starts from Dt. 14/12/2022.
   ii) Last date and time for submission of ONLINE applications is upto 5.00 PM on 04/01/2023.
       The payment of Fee will be accepted upto 5:00 P.M of last date for submission.

2) The details of Lecturer vacancies subject wise are given below: -
                                             MULTI ZONE                 Age as on
    Pc.                                                       Total                  Scale of Pay
            NAME OF THE SUBJECT                                         01/07/2022
    No.                                      MZ-I   MZ-II   Vacancies                    Rs.
                                                                        Min. Max.
     01     Auto Mobile Engineering           –      15        15

     02     Bio-Medical Engineering           –      03        03

     03     Chemical Engineering              –      01        01

     04     Civil Engineering                 33     49        82
            Electrical and Electronics
     05                                       05     19        24
            Engineering
            Electronics and
     06     Communication                     19     22        41
            Engineering
            Electronics and
     07     Instrumentation                   –      01        01
            Engineering
     08     Foot Wear Technology              –      05        05
            Letter  Press        (Printing                                            Level-9A
     09                                       –      05        05
            Technology)                                                                56,100-
                                                                          18-44       1,77,500/-
     10     Mechanical Engineering            26     10        36

     11     Metallurgy                        04     01        05                     Level-10
                                                                                       57,700-
     12     Packaging Technology              –      03        03                     1,82,400/-

     13     Tannery                           –      03        03

     14     Textile Technology                01     –         01

     15     Architecture Engineering          –      04        04

     16     Pharmacy                          02     02        04

     17     Geology                           01     –         01

     18     Chemistry                         02     06        08

     19     Physics                           –      05        05

                                    Total     93    154       247

(The Details of Vacancies i.e., Community-wise, PH-wise, EWS, Sports Category, Multi
Zone and Gender-wise (General/Women) may be seen at Annexure-I.)
                                                                                                  2


IMPORTANT NOTE:- The number of vacancies are subject to variation on intimation being
received from the Department concerned. Addition of vacancies if any, will be accepted only
before the date of examination and an addendum to that effect will be issued. Deletion of
vacancies if any, can be effected upto the declaration of result.

3)     (i) The Examination (Objective Type) is likely to be held in the Month of May/June-
       2023 and the Commission reserves the right to conduct the Examination either
       through COMPUTER BASED RECRUITMENT TEST (CBRT) OR OFFLINE OMR BASED
       EXAMINATION OF OBJECTIVE TYPE.
       (ii) Exact date for the above examination will be announced later.
       (iii) Hall Tickets can be downloaded from 7 days prior to the examination.
       (iv) Candidates are instructed to read the instructions at Annexure-IV of this
          Notification and Instructions printed on the Hall Ticket carefully.

4) Before applying for the posts, candidates shall register themselves on the One Time
   Registration (OTR) through the Official Website of TSPSC (https://www.tspsc.gov.in).
   Those who have registered in OTR already shall apply by login to their profile using their
   TSPSC ID and Date of Birth as provided in OTR. (In case if the candidate has forgotten the
   TSPSC ID, the candidate has to visit the TSPSC website and click on the link “Know Your
   TSPSC_ID” and enter the Aadhar Number and Date of Birth and get the TSPSC-ID). If the
   candidate did not register Aadhar Number in OTR, candidate has to enter either his/her
   registered mobile number or Name and Date of Birth to get the TSPSC ID).

Note:- i) One Time Registration is not considered as an application for any post under any
circumstances.

      ii) The applicants are advised to retain their Mobile Number and email ID registered in
OTR for receiving OTP/SMS for further communication.

IMPORTANT NOTE: Applicants are requested to keep the soft copy of the following documents
ready while uploading their Applications and updating the OTRs.

  i.   Aadhar Card /Voter ID / Pass Port / Driving License / Service ID Cards with (Photograph
       issued by Central/State/PSU/Public Limited Companies) / Passbook with (photograph by
       Bank / Post Office) / PAN Card.
 ii.   Educational Qualifications i.e., SSC, Intermediate, Degree, Post Graduation etc.,
iii.   Study (Bonafide) / Residence Certificate (1st to 7th Class period).
iv.    Community Certificate (SC/ST/BC), Non-Creamy Layer Certificate in case of BCs issued by
       the competent authority of Telangana Government.
v.     Income certificate for the Financial Year prior to the year of application issued by the
       competent authority of Telangana Government for claiming EWS reservation.
vi.    Certificates claiming Sports & PH reservation, and age relaxation for Ex-Servicemen.

5) The applicants who possess requisite qualification may apply online by satisfying
   themselves about the terms and conditions of this recruitment.
6) EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS: Applicants must possess the requisite qualifications as
   detailed below, specified in the relevant Service Rules, indented by the Department, as on
   the Date of Notification.
                              Educational Qualifications as specified in the Service Rules of
Pc.        Name of the
                                the Department vide G.O.Ms.No.26 Higher Education (TE)
No.          Subject
                                                   Dept., Dt. 30.07.2021
        Automobile
 01                           1. Level-9A
        Engineering
                                 Those possessing a minimum of 4 years Bachelor’s Degree in
        Bio-Medical              BE/B.Tech/B.S in relevant disciplines with First Class or
 02                              Equivalent shall be placed in Level-9A at entry pay of
        Engineering
                                 Rs.56,100/-.
        Chemical
 03                           2. Level-10
        Engineering
                                 Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree in relevant disciplines with First
                                 Class in either of the two at the time of Selection shall be placed
 04     Civil Engineering        in Level-10 at entry pay of Rs.57,700/-.
        Electrical and
 05     Electronics
        Engineering
                                                                                                 3


     Electronics and
06   Communication
     Engineering
     Electronics and
07   Instrumentation
     Engineering
     Foot Wear
08                          1. Level-9A
     Technology
                               Those possessing a minimum of 4 years Bachelor’s Degree in
     Letter Press              BE/B.Tech/B.S in relevant disciplines with First Class or
09   (Printing                 Equivalent shall be placed in Level-9A at entry pay of
     Technology)               Rs.56,100/-
     Mechanical
10                          2. Level-10
     Engineering
                               Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree in relevant disciplines with
                               First Class in either of the two at the time of Selection shall be
11   Metallurgy                placed in Level-10 at entry pay of Rs.57,700/-

     Packaging
12
     Technology

13   Tannery


14   Textile Technology


                            1. Level-9A
                               Those possessing a minimum of 4 years Bachelor’s Degree
                               in B.Arch or 4 years Degree in allied field with First Class or
                               Equivalent shall be placed in Level-9A at entry pay of
     Architecture              Rs.56,100/-
15
     Engineering
                            2. Level-10
                               Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree in relevant disciplines with
                               First Class in either of the two at the time of Selection shall
                               be placed in Level-10 at entry pay of Rs.57,700/-.

                            1. Level-9A
                               Those possessing a minimum of 4 years Bachelor’s Degree
                               in B.Pharmacy with First Class or Equivalent shall be placed
                               in Level-9A at entry pay of Rs.56,100/-.
16   Pharmacy
                            2. Level-10
                               Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree in relevant disciplines with
                               First Class in either of the two at the time of Selection shall
                               be placed in Level-10 at entry pay of Rs.57,700/-.

                            1. Level-9A
                               Those possessing Master’s Degree in Appropriate subject
17   Geology
                               with First Class or Equivalent at Bachelor’s or Master’s Level
                               shall be placed in Level-9A at entry pay of Rs.56,100/-.

18   Chemistry              2. Level-10
                               A Master’s Degree with First Class or Equivalent in relevant
                               subject and must have cleared the National Eligibility Test
                               (NET) conducted by UGC or CSIR, or a similar test
19   Physics                   accredited by the UGC like SLET/SET or possessing Ph.D.
                               shall be placed in Level-10 at entry pay of Rs.57,700/-.

NOTE: 1) First Class or Equivalent as specified for Level – 9A & First Class either two
        (i.e., Bachelor’s or Master’s) at Level -10 of Para 4.1(a) & 4.2(a) of Appendix-B
        for all Categories except SC/ST.
     2) Relaxation of 5% of Marks for SC/ST (i.e., 55% or 6.25 Grade point is enough
        for SC/ST Candidates) as mentioned in Para 6.3 read with 2.20 of Appendix-B.
                                                                                                      4


        If a class / division is not awarded, minimum of 60% marks in aggregate shall be
considered equivalent to first class / division. If a Grade Point System is adopted the CGPA
will be converted into equivalent marks as below:

                              Grade Point            Equivalent Percentage
                                   6.25                          55%
                                   6.75                          60%
                                   7.25                          65%
                                   7.75                          70%
                           8.25                        75%
IMPORTANT NOTE:- 1) For Pc. No. 17, 18 &19:- Master’s Degree in appropriate subject with
                    First Class or equivalent at Bachelor’s or Master’s Level.
                  2) The First Class shall be either at Bachelor’s or Master’s Level.

N.B:- i) Distance Education:- The Applicants who have obtained requisite Degrees through
         Open Universities / Distance Education mode are required to have recognition by the
         University Grants Commission / AICTE / Distance Education Bureau as the case may
         be. Unless such Degrees have been recognised by the relevant Statutory Authority,
         they will not be accepted for purpose of Educational Qualification vide its Public Notice
         No. F.27-1/2012 (CPP-II), Dt. 27/06/2013. (A university established or incorporated by
         or under a State act shall operate only within the territorial jurisdiction allotted to it
         under its Act and in no case beyond the territory of the State of its location). The onus
         of proof of recognition by the relevant Statutory Authority that their Degrees /
         Universities have been recognised rests with the candidate.
        ii) Equivalent Qualification: At the time of verification of certificates, if it is noticed that
            any applicant possessing other than prescribed qualification and claims it as equivalent
            to the prescribed qualifications, then an Expert Committee will be constituted including
            the Unit Officer by the Commission and the Commission will take a decision based on
            the report of the Expert Committee.

7) AGE: The candidates should possess Minimum 18 years & Maximum 44 years. The age is
        reckoned as on 01/07/2022 (Rule-12(1)(a)(v) of State and Subordinate Service Rules).

(As per G.O.Ms.No.42, G.A.(Ser.A) Department, Dt. 19/03/2022 the upper age limit is
raised up to 10 years i.e., from 34 years to 44 years)
Minimum Age (18 years): An Applicant should not be born after 01/07/2004
Maximum Age (44 years): An applicant should not be born before 02/07/1978
The Upper Age limit will be relaxed as per Rules and will be calculated on the above lines.
Age Relaxations: The upper age limit prescribed above is however relaxable in the following
cases:

  Sl.
                       Category of candidates                      Relaxation of age permissible
  No.
   1.     Telangana State Government Employees                    Upto 5 Years based on the
          (Employees       of      TSRTC,        Corporations,    length of regular service.
          Municipalities etc. are not eligible).
   2.     Ex-Service men                                          3 years & length of service
                                                                  rendered in the armed forces.
   3.     N.C.C. (who have worked as Instructor in N.C.C.)        3 Years & length of service
                                                                  rendered in the N.C.C.
   4.     SC/ST/BCs & EWS                                         5 Years
   5.     Physically Handicapped persons                          10 Years
Note: Provided that the persons referred at Sl.No. 2&3 above shall, after making deductions
       referred to in Sub Rule–12(c)(i)&(ii) of Telangana State and Subordinate Service Rules
       not exceed the maximum age limit prescribed for the post.
   i) The age relaxation for Ex-servicemen is applicable for those who have been released
        from Armed forces other than by way of Dismissal or Discharge on account of
        misconduct or Inefficiency.
   ii) The age relaxation for NCC, a Person who was recruited as a whole-time Cadet Corpse
        Instructor on or after the 1st January, 1963 on his discharge from the NCC either before
        or after the expiry of the initial or extended tenure of his office in NCC having served for
        a period of not less than six months prior to his release from the NCC.
                                                                                                    5


N.B. However, no person shall be eligible if he/she crossed 61 years of age (Superannuation
     age) after availing the eligible age relaxations as on 01/07/2022.
8) (A) FEE:
    i) Application Processing Fee:- Each applicant must pay Rs. 200/- (Rupees Two
        Hundred Only) towards Online Application Processing Fee.
      ii) Examination Fee:- The applicants have to pay RS. 120/- (Rupees One Hundred and
          Twenty Only) towards Examination Fee. However,
      a) All unemployees are exempted from payment of examination fee, and
      b) All Employees of any Government (Central / State / PSUs / Corporations / Other
         Government Sector) have to pay the prescribed examination fee.
  B) Mode of Payment of Fee:
        The Fee mentioned at Para-I(8)(A) is to be paid online through payment gateway duly
following online instructions once the application form details are submitted.
        The fee once remitted, shall not be refunded or adjusted under any circumstances.
Failure to pay the Application Processing fee and Examination fee, wherever applicable, will
entail total rejection of application. Unless full payment of both Examination fee (unless
exempted) and Application fee is made, the candidature of the applicant will be rejected and no
correspondence or concession in this regard will be entertained. The list of Banks providing
service for the purpose of online remittance of fee is given in ANNEXURE – II.
PARA-II: CENTRES FOR THE WRITTEN EXAMINATION:

 1) The Written Examination (Objective Type) will be held at the following centres or as may
    be decided by the Commission.
        i) HYDERABAD (including HMDA Jurisdiction)
       ii) KARIMNAGAR
      iii) KHAMMAM
      iv) HANUMAKONDA
       v) NIZAMABAD
 2) However, the Commission reserves the right to allot candidates to any centre other than
    the centre chosen by the applicant or to remove / create a new centre for administrative
    reasons. Request for change of the centre will not be entertained.

PARA-III: HOW TO APPLY:
HOW TO SUBMIT THE ONLINE APPLICATION FORM:

(i)     The Applicant has to read the User Guide (https://www.tspsc.gov.in) for Online
          Submission of Applications and then proceed further.
Step I: Before applying, the Applicant has to visit the website (https://www.tspsc.gov.in) and
        fill the OTR application if not registered earlier to obtain TSPSC ID. The candidates are
        advised to upload all the required certificates (However, original certificates have to be
        produced for verification at the time of scrutiny before finalizing the selection list). While
        filling the OTR, the applicant has to ensure that there are no mistakes in it. The
        Commission will not be held responsible for the mistakes, if any, made by the applicants.
        If already registered in the OTR the applicant can directly access the application form.
        The applicant is instructed to fill his/her application form himself/herself with utmost care
        instead of delegating to others.
Step II:-a)In order to fill the application form, the Applicant has to visit the website
           (https://www.tspsc.gov.in) and Click on the online Application Link provided on the
           Website, then enter TSPSC ID and Date of Birth and login with OTP received to
           proceed further.
        b) Applicant has to verify the details fetched from OTR database pertaining to Name,
           Date of Birth, requisite Educational Qualifications, Community, Gender, Ex-
           Servicemen & Sports etc., displayed on the screen.
        c) In addition to the details obtained from OTR database, specific details of Notification
           such as Examination Centre opted, required qualification and declarations etc.,
           should be filled by the applicant.
        d) Preview and Edit facility is available to make changes and then click on SAVE &
            PAY button for proceeding to next step of making online payment of fee through
            payment gateway.
                                                                                                   6


Step III:- The applicant should pay the prescribed fee as specified through any of the three
           modes of payment online i.e., Net Banking, Debit Card and Credit Card duly following
           the instructions appearing on the screen.
Step IV:-After payment of fee, the PDF application will be generated which contains the
         particulars furnished by the applicant. The applicant must download a copy of his/her
         submitted form (PDF). The Reference ID Number in the PDF application form has to
         be quoted for future reference/correspondence.
   1) Applicant shall note that, the details available in OTR database at the time of submitting
      the application will only be considered for the purpose of this notification. Hence, the
      candidate is advised to update / edit the details in OTR form before submitting online
      application form. The Time and Date of submission of the application will be printed on
      the application PDF form. Changes made by the applicant in OTR details after
      submission of application form will not be considered for the purpose of this Notification.
   2) The Commission is not responsible for any discrepancy in Bio-data particulars submitted
      in the application form. The applicant is therefore advised to strictly follow the
      instructions and User guide in his/her own interest before submitting the application.
   3) Applicant must compulsorily fill-up all relevant columns of the application form. The
      eligibility of the applicant will be decided based on the particulars given in the online
      application form in terms of notification and it is validated by the software and it will be
      taken as final. For eg: If an applicant fails to update the OTR regarding his/her Sports
      status before applying, the applicant will not be considered for Sports vacancies.
      Applicant should therefore be very careful, while entering the data and uploading /
      submitting the application form online.
   4) Incomplete / incorrect application form will be rejected. The information if any furnished
      by the applicant subsequently in any form will not be entertained by the Commission
      under any circumstances unless specifically called for. Applicant should be careful in
      filling-up the application form and submission. If any lapse is detected during the
      scrutiny/verification of certificates, the candidature will be rejected even though he/she
      comes through the final stage of recruitment process or even at a later stage.
   5) Before uploading/submission of application form, the applicant should carefully ensure
      his/her eligibility for this examination. No relevant column of the application form should
      be left blank, otherwise application form will not be accepted.
   6) The Commission will not make any corrections in the application form submitted by the
      applicant.
   7) Applicant must click on Save & Pay Button after filling and preview of the application.
      Otherwise the application particulars will not be saved in the database.
   8) Hand written/ Typed/ Photostat copies/ outside printed Application Form will not be
      entertained. The Commission will not be held responsible for the applications submitted
      in any other mode.
   9) For any Technical problems related to Online submission and downloading of Hall-
      Tickets please contact 040-23542185 or 040-23542187 (Call Time: 10.30 A.M to 1.00
      P.M & 1.30 P.M to 5.00 P.M on working days) or mail to helpdesk@tspsc.gov.in.


PARA- IV GENERAL PROVISIONS

1) The applications received online in the prescribed proforma within the time shall only be
   considered.
2) Applicant must upload his/her scanned recent pass port size photo and signature in .jpeg
   format.
3) The applicant should not furnish any particulars that are false, tampered, fabricated or
   suppress any material information while submitting online application.
4) All the essential certificates issued by the competent authority of Telangana State shall be
   kept with the applicants at the time of submitting the application.
5) The required original certificates should be submitted at the time of verification of certificates
   or whenever called for.         Failure to produce the required certificates will lead to
   disqualification.
6) Important: –The claim of the applicants with regard to the date of birth, educational
   qualifications and community etc., are accepted provisionally on the information furnished by
   them in their application form and is subject to verification and satisfaction of the
                                                                                               7


   Commission. Mere admission to any test or inclusion of the name of an applicant in a Merit
   List will not confer on the applicant any right for appointment. The candidature is therefore,
   provisional at all stages and the Commission reserves the right to reject candidature at any
   stage of the selection even after declaration of results, if any mistake/wrong information is
   noticed at a later date.
7) The applicants should be willing to serve anywhere in Telangana State.
8) NOTE ON UTILISING EDIT OPTION BY CANDIDATES:
   The applicant should follow the TSPSC website regularly to utilize the edit option if given by
   the Commission at any point of time. No separate advertisement / notification will be issued
   in any news paper. No separate individual intimation shall be given.
9) Invalidation of OMR Answer Sheet: -
   a) If any applicant fails to bubble or wrongly bubble the Question Booklet Number, Hall
      Ticket Number in the OMR Answer Sheet, such Answer Sheets are invariably
      invalidated as they are valued by Optical Mark Reader. This stipulation is to avoid any
      sort of human interface in evaluation of the Scripts.
   b) Tampering of OMR answer sheet by using whitener, eraser, blade and chalk powder
      etc., and also tampering of barcode by any means leads to invalidation.
   c) No request for reconsideration of such rejected/invalidated cases will be entertained.

10) A) The following certificates / documents must be submitted by the candidates at the
       time of verification of certificates.
     i) PDF Application form
    ii) Hall Ticket.
   iii) Aadhar Card /Voter ID / Pass Port / Driving License / Service ID Cards with (Photograph
         issued by Central/State/PSU/Public Limited Companies) / Passbook with (photograph by
         Bank / Post Office) / PAN Card.
  iv) Proof of Educational Qualifications.
    v) S.S.C / CBSE / ICSE (For Date of Birth)
  vi) School Study Certificate (1st to 7th Class)
  vii) Certificate of Residence (where the Candidate has not studied in Educational Institution)
         (1st to 7th Class period) obtained from competent authority of Telangana Government.
 viii) Declaration by the Unemployed (For claiming exemption from payment of exam fee).
  ix) No Objection Certificate from Employer (even if employed at any later stage of
         recruitment).
    x) Service Certificate (If any employee claimed Age relaxation).
  xi) Certificate claiming sports reservation.
  xii) Certificate claiming Ex-servicemen for age relaxation.
 xiii) Community Certificate for BCs, SCs & STs (Issued in the name of candidate with Father
        Name is only acceptable.) obtained from competent authority of Telangana Government.
xiv) Non-Creamy Layer Certificate for BCs as per Form- VIIB vide G.O. Ms. No. 34 BC
        Welfare (OP) Department Dt.08/10/2015 and G.O. Ms. No. 20 BC Welfare (OP)
        Department Dt.31/10/2017 (Certificate issued in the name of candidate as S/o OR D/o is
        only acceptable.) obtained from competent authority of Telangana Government.
 xv) Income certificate for the Financial Year prior to the year of application issued by the
        competent authority of Telangana government for claiming EWS reservation.
xvi) In case of PH Candidates, Visually Handicapped / Hearing Disability & Hearing
        Impairment / Orthopedically Handicapped / Multiple disabilities, certificates should be
        obtained from Competent Medical Authority in SADAREM format relevant to them.
xvii) Any other certificate required.
B) Guidelines for evaluation of various disabilities and procedure for certification are
    mentioned in G.O.Ms.No.31, WD, CW & (DW) Dept, Dt:01-12-2009.
  1. Physically Challenged candidates who are claiming reservations under Disability quota
     must note that they will be referred to State Medical Board (Appellate Medical Authority)
     after completion of certificate verification. The report of Medical Board is final.
   2. Request for re-medical-examination by the State Medical Board (Appellate Medical
      Authority) for assessment of disability will not be entertained.
 Note:-The      Certificate formats     are    available       on     Commission’s       website
        https://www.tspsc.gov.in/certificateformats.jsp.
                                                                                                8


PARA-V :- IMPORTANT LEGAL PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE RECRUITMENT PROCESS:
1. Vacancies: The recruitment will be made to the vacancies notified before the examination
   only. There shall be no waiting list as per G.O. Ms. No. 81 General Administration (Ser.A)
   Department, Dated 22/02/1997 and as per Rule 6 of TSPSC Rules of Procedure.
2. Unfilled and Non-Joining vacancies will be Carried Forward to next recruitment.
3. This Recruitment is entrusted to TSPSC along with Finance Clearance vide G.O.Ms.No.116
   Finance (HRM.VII) Department, Dt. 22/07/2022.
4. Recruitment:- The Recruitment will be processed as per this Notification and also as per
   the Rules and Instructions issued by the Government and also as decided by the
   Commission from time to time in terms of respective Special Rules/Adhoc Rules governing
   the Recruitment vide G.O. Ms. No. 178 Higher Education (TE.I-2) Dept., Dt. 09/12/2005 read
   with G.O. Ms. No. 26, Higher Education (TE) Dept., Dt. 30/07/2021 and as per Government
   Orders issued from time to time, and other related G.Os, Rules etc., applicable in this
   regard.
5. Rules: All are informed that the various conditions and criterion prescribed herein are
   governed by the General Rules of existing State and Subordinate Service Rules, read with
   the relevant Special Rules applicable to any particular service in the departments. Any
   guidelines or clarification is based on the said Rules, and, in case of any necessity, any
   matter will be processed as per the relevant General and Special Rules in force.
6. Constitutional Provisions:- The Commission is empowered under the provisions of Article
   315 and 320 of the Constitution of India read with relevant laws, rules, regulations and
   executive instructions and all other enabling legal provisions in this regard to conduct
   examination for appointment to the posts notified herein, duly following the principle of order
   of merit as per Rule 3 of the TSPSC Rules of Procedure read with reference to relevant
   statutory provisions and ensuring that the whole recruitment and selection process is carried
   out with utmost regard to maintain secrecy and confidentiality so as to ensure that the
   principle of merit is followed.
7. Multi Zonal Post:- The posts are classified into Multi Zonal posts and the local reservation
   is applicable as per G.O.Ms.No.124, General Administration (SPF-MC), Department, Dated
   30-08-2018.
8. Local:-The Local Reservations shall be followed as per the Telangana Public Employment
   (Organization of Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct Recruitment) Order, 2018,
   G.O.Ms.No.124, General Administration (SPF-MC), Department, Dated 30-08-2018 as
   amended vide G.O.Ms. No. 128, G.A. (SPF-I) Dept., Dated: 30/06/2021 and other orders
   issued by the Government of Telangana from time to time and other related G.Os, Rules
   etc., applicable.
9. Employee Details:- The persons already in Government Service/ Autonomous bodies/
   Government aided institutions etc., whether in permanent or temporary capacity or as work
   charged employees are required to inform in writing to the Head of Office / Department, that
   they have applied for this recruitment, as the case may be and required to submit the “No
   Objection Certificate” from the Head of Office / Department concerned to the Commission as
   and when required to do so.
       The persons who are employed after submission of application or at any later stage for
   this recruitment should also submit “No Objection Certificate” from the Head of Office /
   Department concerned to the Commission as and when required to do so.
10. A) Penal Action:- The Commission is also empowered to invoke the penal provisions of
   the T.S. Public Examinations (Prevention of Malpractices and Unfair means) Act, 1997 (Act
   No.25/1997) for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto and as per the Rules of
   Procedure of TSPSC published in Telangana Gazette No: 60 dated 28/12/2015 in respect of
   this Notification.
   B) Disqualification for appointment: A candidate shall be disqualified at any stage as per
   Rule-12(4) of Telangana State and Subordinate Service Rules.
11) Community: (a) The candidates belonging to SC & ST are required to produce Community
    Certificate issued by the competent authority (obtained from Government of Telangana
    State) in terms of G.O.Ms No. 58, SW (J) Dept., dt: 12/5/97 read with G.O. Ms. No. 5
    Scheduled Castes Development (POA.A2) Dept., dt. 08/08/2014, G.O. Ms. No. 11
    Scheduled Castes Development (POA.A2) Dept., dt. 17/09/2014 and G.O. Ms. No. 2
    Scheduled Castes Development (POA.A2) Dept., dt. 22/01/2015. As per Rule-2(29) of T.S.
    State and Subordinate Service Rules. Explanation: No person who professes a religion
    different from Hinduism, the Sikh or Buddhism shall be deemed to be as member of a
    Scheduled Caste. (b)The candidates belonging to Backward Classes are required to
    produce Community Certificate (BC-A, BC-B, BC-C, BC-D & BC-E) issued by the
                                                                                                    9


   Competent Authority in the State of Telangana obtained through Mee-Seva vide G.O. Ms.
   No. 16 BCW (OP) Dept., Dt. 11/03/2015. (c) Income Certificate for claiming EWS
   Reservation issued by the Tahsildar (Government of Telangana) vide G.O. Ms. No. 244
   General Administration (Ser.D) Department, Dt. 24/08/2021 and orders and instructions
   issued by the Government from time to time.
12) Reservation: -
   (i) The rule of reservation is applicable in terms of General Rule 22 & 22 (A) of Telangana
       State and Subordinate Service Rules.
   (ii) Reservation to Disabled persons is subject to the Special Rules/Adhoc Rules governing
        the posts. The extent of Disability will be decided by the State Appellate Medical
        Authorities.
   (iii) If eligible disabled women candidates of VH(W) / HH(W) / OH(W) / MH(W) category are
         not available in the initial recruitment, the same shall be filled up by the eligible Male
         candidates with same category of disability respectively as per G.O.MS. No. 96 General
         Administration (Ser.D) Department, Dt. 22/07/2019. Hence, eligible male candidates of
         VH/ HH/ OH/ MH disabled category can also apply for the posts meant for Women
         categories.
   (iv) For Carry Forward PH vacancies, if eligible disabled candidates of that particular
        category are not available, the same shall be filled up by the method of interchanging as
        per G.O.MS. No. 96 General Administration (Ser.D) Department, Dt. 22/07/2019. Hence,
        candidates of all the disabled categories can apply.
   (v) Reservation to BC-E group as per G.O. Ms. No. 23 Backward Classes Welfare (C.2)
       Department, Dt. 07/07/2007, will be subject to the adjudication of the litigation before the
       Honorable Courts including final orders in Civil Appeal No: (a) 2628-2637 of 2010 in
       SLP. No. 7388-97 of 2010, dated. 25/03/2010 and orders from the Government.
  (vi) The reservation to Meritorious Sports Person is applicable as per the amendments made
       to State and Subordinate Service Rules as per G.O.Ms.No.107, General Administration
       (Ser.D) Dept., Dt. 27-07-2018 that is in Rule-2, for sub-Rule (20) and in Rule-22 (i) in
       sub-Rule (2), for Class-D. In implementing the reservation to Meritorious Sports Person
       as per G.O. Ms. No.05 YAT&C(Sports) Department, Dt. 14/05/2018, or as may be
       revised by the Government from time to time shall be followed.
   (vii) Economically Weaker Sections:- The EWS reservation is applicable as per
         G.O. Ms. No. 243 & 244 GA (SER.D) Dept., Dt. 24/08/2021.
  (viii) As per G.O.Ms.No.130, General Administration (Ser.D) Department, Dt.09.11.2022,
         enhancing the reservations for Scheduled Tribes from 6% to 10% read with
         G.O.Ms.No.135, General Administration (Ser.D) Department, Dt.23.11.2022.
  Note:-Candidates producing Certificates issued by the Competent Authorities in
        Telangana State alone are eligible to claim various reservations like SC/ST/BC/
        EWS/PH etc.
PARA-VI:

(1) Local Reservation (95%) is applicable as per Para-8 of G.O.Ms.No.124 General
Administration (SPF-MC) Department, dated :30.08.2018).
(2) Local Candidate as per Para-7 of G.O.Ms.No.124 General Administration (SPF-MC)
Department, Dated :30.08.2018:-
“(1) A candidate for direct recruitment to any post shall be regarded as a local candidate in
relation to a local area,-
    (a) in cases where a minimum educational qualification has been prescribed for recruitment
to the posts,-
    (i) if he has studied in an educational institution or educational institutions in such local area
for a period of not less than four consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in
which he appeared or, as the case may be, first appeared for the relevant qualifying
examination; or
    (ii) where during the whole or any part of the four consecutive academic years ending with
the academic year in which he appeared or as the case may be first appeared for the relevant
qualifying examination he has not studied in any educational institution, if he has resided in that
local area for a period of not less than four years immediately preceding the date of
commencement of the qualifying examination in which he appeared, or as the case may be, first
appeared.
    (b) In cases where no minimum educational qualifications has been prescribed for
recruitment to the post, if he has resided in that local area for a period of not less than four
                                                                                                    10


years immediately preceding the date on which the post is notified for recruitment.
Explanations:- For the purpose of this paragraph,-
     (i) ‘educational institution’ means a University or any educational institution recognized by
the State Government, a University or other competent authority;
     (ii) relevant qualifying examination in relation to a post means,-
           (a) the examination, a pass in which is the minimum educational qualification prescribed
for the post;
           (b) the Seventh Class examination or an examination declared by the State Government
to be equivalent to the Seventh Class examination; whichever is lower;
     (iii) in reckoning the consecutive academic years during which a candidate has studied, any
period of interruption of his study by reason of his failure to pass any examination shall be
disregarded;
     (iv) the question, whether any candidate for direct recruitment to any post has resided in any
local area shall be determined with reference to the places where the candidate actually resided
and not with reference to the residence of his parents or other guardian.
     (2) A candidate for direct recruitment to any post who is not regarded as a local candidate
under sub-paragraph (1) in relation to any local area shall,-
     (a) in cases where a minimum educational qualification has been prescribed for recruitment
to the post,-
     (i) If he has studied in educational institutions in the State for a period of not less than seven
consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he appeared or as the
case may be, first appeared for the relevant qualifying examination be regarded as a local
candidate in relation to,-
     (A) Such local area where he has studied for the maximum period out of the said period of
seven years; or
     (B) Where the periods of his study in two or more local areas are equal, such local areas
where he has studied last in such equal periods;
     (ii) If during the whole or any part of the seven consecutive academic years ending with the
academic year in which he appeared or as the case may be first appeared for the relevant
qualifying examination, he has not studied in the educational institutions in any local area, but
has resided in the State during the whole of the said period of seven years, be regarded as a
local candidate in relation to,-
     A) Such local area where he has resided for the maximum period out of the said period of
seven years; or
     (B) Where the periods of his residence in two or more local areas are equal, such local area
where he has resided last in such equal periods;
     (b) In cases where no minimum educational qualification has been prescribed for
recruitment to the post, if he has resided in the State for a period of not less than seven years
immediately preceding the date on which the post is notified for recruitment, be regarded as a
local candidate in relation to,-
     (i) such local area where he has resided for the maximum period out of the said period of
seven years; or
     (ii) where the periods of his residence in two or more local areas are equal such local area
where he has resided last in such equal periods.
     (c) In cases where Visually Handicapped and Hearing Handicapped persons studied in the
special schools meant for them, the native place of the parents of such Visually Handicapped
and Hearing Handicapped persons.”
3) The following are the Present Multi-Zones in the Telangana State vide G.O.Ms. No. 124,
    G.A. (SPF-MC) Dept., Dated: 30/08/2018 and amended vide G.O.Ms. No. 128, G.A.
    (SPF-I) Dept., Dated: 30/06/2021 read with G.O.Rt.No.74, Revenue (DA-CMRF) Dept.,
    dt:12/08/2021:
                 Asifabad-Kumrambheem, Mancherial, Peddapalli, Jayashankar-Bhupalapalli-,
                 Mulugu Districts
                 Adilabad, Nirmal, Nizamabad, Jagityal Districts
Multi Zone- I
                 Karimnagar, Sircilla-Rajanna, Siddipet, Medak, Kamareddy Districts
                 Kothagudem- Bhadradri, Khammam, Mahabubabad, Hanumakonda (Warangal
                 Urban), Warangal (Warangal Rural) Districts
                 Suryapet, Nalgonda, Yadadri- Bhongir, Jangaon Districts
                 Medchal-Malkajgiri, Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, Sanga Reddy, Vikarabad
Multi Zone- II   Districts
                 Mahaboobnagar, Narayanpet, Jogulamba-Gadwal, Wanaparthi, Nagarkurnool
                 Districts
                                                                                                   11


PARA-VII: SCHEME OF EXAMINATION:- The Scheme & Syllabus for the examination has
been shown in ANNEXURE-III.
PARA-VIII: RESOLVING OBJECTIONS RELATED TO QUESTIONS, KEY AND OTHER
MATTERS OF OBJECTIVE TEST:
i)   The Commission publishes the key on its website after conduct of the objective test. Any
     objections with regard to the questions / Key shall be filed within the stipulated period
     through the link provided in the TSPSC website, after publication of the key. The objections
     received physically in the form of representations or through emails are not entertained in
     any circumstances. Any objection(s) received after the last date for receipt of objections on
     key would not be entertained.
ii) However, for each objection raised by the candidate he/she required to pay Rs.500/-
    (Rupees Five Hundred only) online through payment gateway duly following online
    instructions. The list of Banks providing service for the purpose of online remittance of
    payment is given in Annexure–II.
iii) The objections received in the prescribed proforma within due date will be referred to Expert
     Committee for opinion to take appropriate decision thereon by the Commission. Final key
     will be hosted as per decision of the Commission.
iv) Objections on final key shall not be entertained.
v) The marks for the deleted questions, if any, will be awarded to each candidate
   proportionately based on his performance on the remaining questions and the marks would
   be considered upto 3rd decimal figure, to determine the merit of the candidates.
vi) After completion of Examination, the Images of OMR Sheets will be hosted on the
    Commission’s Website (https://www.tspsc.gov.in) for reference. Candidates by entering
    the required Login credentials can download the Images of OMR Sheets. Candidates are
    advised to retain their Images of OMR Sheets for future purpose until completion of the
    recruitment process. Duplicate Images of OMR Sheets will not be issued under any
    circumstances.

PARA-IX: PROCEDURE OF SELECTION:

1) Pattern of Examination will be as per G.O. Ms. No. 55 General Administration (Ser.A)
   Department, Dt. 25/04/2022.
2) The Selection of Candidates for appointment to the posts will be made by Written
   Examination (Objective Type) by CBRT/ OMR Based and the Selection for the posts will be
   based on marks secured in the written examination.
3) Those candidates who qualify in the Written Examination in order of merit will be called for
   verification of Certificates, Community and Category wise for the vacancies available as
   required. The qualifying marks for selection of the candidates belonging to: OC, Ex-Service
   men, Sports men & EWS – not less than 40%, BCs - not less than 35% SCs, STs and PH –
   not less than 30%.
     N.B.: Mere securing minimum qualifying marks does not vest any right in a candidate for
     being considered for selection
4) In the event of SC and ST candidates not coming up for selection with the minimum marks
   prescribed above for selection, their selection shall be considered on the basis of marks with
   reference to their performance in the written examination irrespective of the marks secured.
5) The appearance in all the paper/papers at the Written Examination is compulsory. Absence
   in any of the paper/papers will automatically render his/her candidature for disqualification.
6) Candidates have to produce Original documents and other particulars on the day of
   verification itself. If candidate fails to produce any of the required original certificates and if
   the particulars furnished by him / her in the Application do not tally with the Original
   documents produced him / her, then his / her candidature will be rejected/disqualified
   without any further correspondence. Those candidates who are called for verification of
   certificates should furnish their order of preference of Multi-Zones, Subjects by exercising
   Web-Options and submit at the time of verification of certificates, which are final, failing
   which his/her candidature shall not be considered for further selection process. The
   selections will be confined only to the web options exercised by the candidates. Under no
   circumstances he/she will be considered for the posts /places where preference was not
   indicated.
                                                                                               12


7) The candidates will be selected and allotted to Multi-Zone as per their merit and order of
   Preference (web-options) against the vacancies available.
8) The appointment of selected candidates will be subject to their being found medically fit in
   the appropriate Medical Examination, and if he/she is of sound health, active habits free
   from any bodily defect or infirmity.

PARA-X: DEBARMENT:

a) Candidates should make sure of their eligibility to the posts applied for and that the
   declaration made by them in the format of application regarding their eligibility is correct in
   all respects. Any candidate furnishing incorrect information or making false declaration
   regarding his/her eligibility at any stage or suppressing any information is liable to be
   debarred from appearing for any of the examinations conducted by the Commission, and for
   summarily rejection of candidature for this recruitment.
b) The Commission is vested with the constitutional duty of conducting recruitment and
   selection as per rules duly maintaining utmost secrecy and confidentiality in this process and
   any attempt by anyone causing or likely to cause breach of this constitutional duty in such
   manner or by such action as to violate or likely to violate the fair practices followed and
   ensured by the Commission will be sufficient cause for rendering such questionable means
   as ground for debarment and penal consequences as per law and rules and as may be
   decided by the Commission.
c) Any candidate is or has been found impersonating or resorting to any other irregular or
   improper means in connection with his / her candidature for selection or obtaining support of
   candidature by any means, such a candidate may in addition to rendering himself/ herself
   liable to criminal prosecution, will be debarred permanently from any exam or selection held
   by any Public Service Commission in the country.
d) If he/she himself/herself or through relations or friends or any others has canvassed or
   endeavored to enlist for his candidature extraneous support, whether from official or non-
   official sources for appointment to any State Service or Subordinate Service shall be
   disqualified.
e) The applicants are not allowed to bring any Electronic devices or Gadgets such as Smart /
   Mobile Phones, Calculators, Tablets, iPad, Bluetooth, Pagers, Programmable Devices or
   Storage Media like Pen-drive, Smart Watches, Camera etc., or any other equipment or
   related accessories either in working or switched off mode capable of being used as a
   communication device during the examination. Loaning and interchanging of articles among
   the applicants is not permitted in the examination hall and any form of malpractice will not be
   permitted in the exam hall and applicants are advised not to bring any of the banned items
   including mobile phones to the venue of the examination, as arrangement for safe – keeping
   cannot be assured.
f)   Any infringement / unfair means of the above instructions as per Act No. 25/1997 shall entail
     disciplinary action published in State Gazette No. 35, Part–IV-B Extraordinary Dt.
     21/08/1997 (as adapted by the Telangana Adaptation of Laws Order, 2016) if noticed, at any
     stage of the Recruitment shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be
     less than three years but which may extend upto seven years and with fine which shall not
     be less than Rupees Five Thousand, but which may extend upto Rupees One Lakh.
PARA-XI:- (A) Please read the following Annexures appended to the Notification before filling
the application form.

            Annexure-I         Breakup of Vacancies
            Annexure-II        Payment gateway
            Annexure-III       Scheme and Syllabus
            Annexure-IV        Instruction to the Candidates
            Annexure-V         List of Communities
            Annexure-VI        List of the recognized sports

(B) MEMORANDUM OF MARKS:- After Publication of results, the marks list (total marks) of the
    successful candidates will be displayed on the Commission’s Website. However,
    Memorandum of Marks can be obtained after one month from the date of declaration of
    selection list in TSPSC website on payment of Rs.200/- (Rupees Two Hundred Only)
    through IPO/DD in favour of the Secretary, T.S. Public Service Commission, Hyderabad, for
    a period of Three Months only. Rejected, Invalid, disqualified, ineligible candidates will not
    be issued any Memorandum of Marks and fees paid by such candidates, if any, will be
    forfeited to Government account, without any correspondence in this regard. Requests for
    memorandum of marks, will not be entertained until the recruitment process is finalized.
                                                                                                    13



PARA XII: SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES:

        Candidates        are      directed     to     follow      the       Commission’s       Website
(https://www.tspsc.gov.in) regularly to know the latest developments of this Recruitment and
any changes/ Modifications/ Addendum/ Corrigendum, dates of Examination, calling of
candidates for verification of Certificates/ Results etc. Candidates may note that individual
communication is not possible. Hence, they must regularly visit the TSPSC website for updates
such as Edit option, Schedule of Examination and Hall Tickets, Merit List, List of candidates
shortlisted for Certificate Verification, schedule of certificate verification / Medical board, etc.
Candidates are advised to go through the Instructions to Candidates enclosed to this
Notification at Annexure-IV.

PARA-XIII: COMMISSION’S DECISION TO BE FINAL:
        The decision of the Commission in all aspects and all respects pertaining to the
application and its acceptance or rejection as the case may be, conduct of examination and at
all consequent stages culminating in the selection or otherwise of any candidate shall be final in
all respects and binding on all concerned, under the powers vested with it under Article 315 and
320 of the Constitution of India. Commission also reserves its right to alter and modify time and
conditions laid down in the notification for conducting the various stages up to selection or
withdraw the Notification at any time, duly intimating details thereof to all concerned, as
warranted by any unforeseen circumstances arising during the course of this process, or as
deemed necessary by the Commission at any stage.

HYDERABAD                                                                                 Sd/-
DATE: 07/12/2022                                                                       SECRETARY
                                                                          ANNEXURE – I

           BREAK-UP OF VACANCY POSITION FOR THE POST LECTURERS IN GOVERNMENT POLYTECHNICS IN TECHNICAL EDUCATION SERVICE


                                                       PC.NO. 01:- LECTURER IN AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING


                     OC         EWS       BC-A     BC-B        BC-C       BC-D    BC-E            SC             ST                   PH               SPORTS       TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                GRAND
MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                TOTAL
                G         W    G     W    G   W    G     W    G    W      G   W   G     W    G         W    G         W       G             W          G   W        G      W

   MZ-I         -         -    -      -   -   -    -      -    -      -   -   -   -      -   -         -    -             -       -            -       -       -       -    -     -

                                                                                                                                            01
   MZ-II        04        02   01     -   -   01   -     01   01      -   -   -   -      -   01        01   01        01          -                    -       -   08      07    15
                                                                                                                                           (VH)

  TOTAL         04        02   01     -   -   01   -     01   01      -   -   -   -      -   01        01   01        01          -        01          -       -   08      07    15


                                                       PC.NO. 02:- LECTURER IN BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING



                     OC            EWS    BC-A     BC-B        BC-C       BC-D        BC-E        SC            ST                    PH           SPORTS          TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                GRAND
MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                TOTAL
                G         W    G     W    G   W    G     W    G    W      G   W   G      W   G         W    G        W        G            W       G       W       G       W

   MZ-I          -         -   -      -   -   -    -      -   -    -      -   -   -      -   -         -    -         -       -            -       -       -       -       -      -

   MZ-II        01        01   -      -   -   -    -      -   -    -      -   -   -      -   -         01   -         -       -            -       -       -       01      02    03

  TOTAL         01        01   -      -   -   -    -      -   -    -      -   -   -      -   -         01   -         -       -            -       -       -       01      02    03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                15


                                                                    PC.NO. 03:- LECTURER IN CHEMICAL ENGINEERING


                     OC               EWS           BC-A         BC-B          BC-C           BC-D         BC-E         SC             ST             PH              SPORTS           TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                         GRAND
MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL
              G        W       G        W       G       W    G       W      G     W          G    W       G    W    G         W    G        W    G         W          G        W       G        W

    MZ-I         -        -       -        -       -    -       -    -      -        -       -    -       -    -    -         -    -         -    -        -          -        -       -        -          -

    MZ-II        -     01         -        -       -    -       -    -      -        -       -    -       -    -    -         -    -         -    -        -          -        -       -        01        01

   TOTAL         -     01         -        -       -    -       -    -      -        -       -    -       -    -    -         -    -         -    -        -          -        -       -        01        01



                                                                        PC. NO. 04:- LECTURER IN CIVIL ENGINEERING


                 OC            EWS              BC-A         BC-B          BC-C           BC-D         BC-E             SC             ST               PH                SPORTS           TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                         GRAND
MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL
             G        W       G        W       G       W    G       W      G     W       G       W    G       W    G         W    G         W     G             W         G        W       G        W

                                                                                                                                                  01            01
   MZ-I      07       04      02       01      02      01   01      01    01     -       -       01   -       01   03        02   02        02                            -        -       19       14     33
                                                                                                                                                 (HH)          (VH)
                                                                                                                                                  01            01
   MZ-II     10       06      03       01      02      02   02      02    01     -       02      01   01      01   04        03   03        02                            01       -       30       19     49
                                                                                                                                                 (HH)          (VH)

  TOTAL      17       10      05       02      04      03   03      03    02     -       02      02   01      02   07        05   05        04   02            02         01       -       49       33     82
                                                                                                                                                                       16


                                               PC. NO. 05:- LECTURER IN ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING



                  OC            EWS       BC-A        BC-B       BC-C       BC-D       BC-E            SC             ST             PH       SPORTS   TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                 GRAND
MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                 TOTAL
             G         W    G     W       G     W     G     W    G     W    G     W    G     W    G         W    G         W    G      W      G    W   G    W

   MZ-I      02        01   -         -   -     01    -      -   -      -   -      -   -      -   -         01   -         -    -         -   -    -   02   03    05

                                                                                                                                       01
   MZ-II     04        02   01    01      -     01    -     01   01     -   -     01   -     01   02        01   01        01   --            --   -   09   10    19
                                                                                                                                      (VH)

  TOTAL      06        03   01    01      -     02    -     01   01     -   -     01   -     01   02        02   01        01   -     01      -    -   11   13    24


                                          PC. NO. 06:- LECTURER IN ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING



                  OC         EWS              BC-A        BC-B       BC-C       BC-D       BC-E        SC             ST             PH       SPORTS   TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                 GRAND
MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                 TOTAL
             G         W    G     W       G      W    G      W   G      W   G      W   G      W   G         W    G         W    G         W   G    W   G    W

                                                                                                                                       01
   MZ-I      04        02   01    01      -      01   -     01   01     -   -     01   -     01   02        01   01        01   -             -    -   09   10    19
                                                                                                                                      (VH)
                                                                                                                                       01
   MZ-II     05        02   01    01      01     01   -     01   01     -   -     01   -     01   02        02   01        01   -             -    -   11   11    22
                                                                                                                                      (VH)

  TOTAL      09        04   02    02      01     02   -     02   02     -   -     02   -     02   04        03   02        02   -      02     -    -   20   21    41
                                                                                                                                                                         17


                                              PC. NO. 07:- LECTURER IN ELECTRONICS AND INSTRUMENTATION ENGINEERING



                  OC            EWS       BC-A        BC-B            BC-C        BC-D       BC-E           SC            ST           PH       SPORTS   TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                   GRAND
MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                   TOTAL
             G         W    G     W       G      W    G       W       G       W   G     W    G     W    G        W    G        W   G        W   G   W    G    W

   MZ-I      -         -    -     -       -      -    -       -       -       -   -      -   -      -   -        -    -        -   -        -   -    -   -    -      -

   MZ-II     -     01       -     -       -      -    -       -       -       -   -      -   -      -   -        -    -        -   -        -   -    -   -    01    01

  TOTAL      -     01       -     -       -      -    -       -       -       -   -      -   -      -   -        -    -        -   -        -   -    -   -    01    01



                                                              PC. NO. 08:- LECTURER IN FOOTWEAR TECHNOLOGY



                  OC            EWS           BC-A        BC-B            BC-C        BC-D       BC-E       SC            ST           PH       SPORTS   TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                   GRAND
MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                   TOTAL
             G         W    G     W       G      W    G       W       G       W   G      W   G      W   G        W    G        W   G        W   G    W   G    W

   MZ-I      -         -    -         -   -       -       -       -       -   -   -      -   -      -   -        -    -        -            -   -    -   -     -     -

   MZ-II     02        01   -         -   -      01       -       -       -   -   -      -   --     -   -        01   -        -   -        -   -    -   02   03    05

  TOTAL      02        01   -         -   -      01       -       -       -   -   -      -   -      -   -        01   -        -   -        -   -    -   02   03    05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                18




                                                          PC. NO. 09:- LECTURER IN LETTER PRESS (PRINTING TECHNOLOGY)


                  OC                  EWS               BC-A          BC-B            BC-C             BC-D             BC-E                SC               ST               PH       SPORTS   TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                          GRAND
MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL
             G         W      G         W           G      W          G   W           G       W       G        W       G    W       G            W       G        W       G        W   G   W    G    W

   MZ-I      -            -       -         -       -         -       -       -       -       -       --       -       --           --           -       -        -       -        -   -    -   -    -      -

   MZ-II     02        01         -         -       -      01         -       -       -       -       -        -       -        -       -    01          -        -       -        -   -    -   02   03    05

  TOTAL      02        01         -         -       -      01         -       -       -       -       -        -       -        -       -    01          -        -       -        -   -    -   02   03    05




                                                                      PC. NO. 10:- LECTURER IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING


                 OC           EWS               BC-A              BC-B            BC-C            BC-D             BC-E                 SC               ST                   PH       SPORTS   TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                          GRAND
MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL
             G     W          G        W        G         W       G       W       G       W       G        W       G        W       G        W       G        W       G            W   G   W    G    W

                                                                                                                                                                                 1
   MZ-I      6        3       1        1        1         1       1       1       1       -       -        1       -        1       2        2       2        1       -                -    -   14   12    26
                                                                                                                                                                               (VH)
                                                                                                                                                                                 1
   MZ-II     2        1       1         -       -         1       -       1       -       -       -        -       -        -       1        1       -        1       -                -    -   4    6     10
                                                                                                                                                                               (VH)

  TOTAL      8        4       2        1        1         2       1       2       1       -       -        1       -        1       3        3       2        2       -            2   -    -   18   18    36
                                                                                                                                                      19




                                                      PC. NO. 11:- LECTURER IN METALLURGY


                 OC           EWS   BC-A    BC-B       BC-C     BC-D        BC-E        SC           ST           PH           SPORTS   TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                GRAND
MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                TOTAL
             G        W   G     W   G   W   G     W    G   W    G   W       G   W   G        W   G        W   G        W       G   W    G   W

   MZ-I      1        1   -     -   -   1   -     -    -   -    -   -       -   -   -        1   -        -   -        -       -    -   1   3     4

   MZ-II     -        1   -     -   -   -   -     -    -   -    -   -       -   -   -        -   -        -   -        -       -    -   -   1     1

  TOTAL      1        2   -     -   -   1   -     -    -   -    -   -   -       -   -        1   -        -   -        -       -    -   1   4     5



                                                PC. NO. 12:- LECTURER IN PACKAGING TECHNOLOGY



                 OC           EWS   BC-A    BC-B       BC-C     BC-D        BC-E        SC           ST           PH           SPORTS   TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                GRAND
MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                TOTAL
             G        W   G     W   G   W   G     W    G   W    G   W       G   W   G        W   G        W   G        W       G   W    G   W

   MZ-I      -    -       -     -   -   -   -     -    -   -    -   -       -   -   -        -   -        -   -        -       -    -   -   -     -

   MZ-II     1        1   -     -   -   -   -     -    -   -    -   -       -   -   -        1   -        -   -        -       -    -   1   2     3

  TOTAL      1        1   -     -   -   -   -     -    -   -    -   -       -   -   -        1   -        -   -        -   -        -   1   2     3
                                                                                                                                                                             20



                                                                            PC. NO. 13:- LECTURER IN TANNERY


                 OC           EWS           BC-A            BC-B            BC-C       BC-D       BC-E            SC           ST           PH        SPORTS   TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                       GRAND
MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                       TOTAL
             G    W       G        W        G       W       G       W       G     W    G     W    G     W     G        W   G        W   G        W    G   W    G   W

   MZ-I      -        -   -         -       -       -       -       -       -      -   -      -   -      -    -        -   -        -   -        -    -    -   -   -     -

   MZ-II     1        1   -         -       -       -       -       -       -      -   -      -   -      -    -        1   -        -   -        -    -    -   1   2     3

  TOTAL      1        1   -         -       -       -       -       -       -      -   -      -   -      -    -        1   -        -   -        --   -    -   1   2     3


                                                                    PC. NO. 14:- LECTURER IN TEXTILE TECHNOLOGY


                 OC               EWS           BC-A            BC-B            BC-C       BC-D       BC-E        SC           ST           PH        SPORTS   TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                       GRAND
MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                       TOTAL
             G        W   G         W       G       W       G        W      G      W   G      W   G      W    G        W   G        W   G        W    G   W    G   W

   MZ-I      -        1       -         -       -       -       -       -   -      -   -      -   -      -    -        -   -        -   -        -    -    -   -   1     1

   MZ-II     -        -       -         -       -       -       -       -   -      -   -      -   -      -    -        -   -        -   -        -    -    -   -   -     -

  TOTAL      -        1       -         -       -       -       -       -   -      -   -      -   -      --   -        -   -        -   -        -    -    -   -   1     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      21


                                                                          PC.NO. 15:- LECTURER IN ARCHITECTURE ENGINEERING


                  OC                  EWS                  BC-A           BC-B            BC-C            BC-D            BC-E                SC                ST               PH           SPORTS          TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRAND
MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOTAL
             G         W          G            W       G         W        G       W       G       W       G       W       G       W       G        W        G        W       G        W       G       W       G        W

   MZ-I      -            -       -            -       -         -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -        -        -       -        -       -       -       -        -          -

   MZ-II     01        01         -            -       -         01       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        01       -        -       -        -       -       -       01       03     04

  TOTAL      01        01         -            -       -         01       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        01       -        -       -        -       -       -       01       03     04



                                                                                      PC NO. 16:- LECTURER IN PHARMACY


                 OC               EWS              BC-A               BC-B            BC-C            BC-D            BC-E                SC                ST               PH           SPORTS          TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRAND
MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOTAL
             G     W          G            W       G        W         G       W       G       W       G       W       G       W       G        W        G        W       G        W       G       W       G        W

   MZ-I      -        1       -        -           -         -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        1        -        -       -        -       -       -       -        2          2

   MZ-II     -        1       -        -           -         -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        1        -        -       -        -       -       -       -        2          2

  TOTAL      -        2       -            -       -         -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        2        -        -       -        -       -       -       -        4          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              22




                                                                                        PC NO. 17:- LECTURER IN GEOLOGY



                  OC                 EWS          BC-A              BC-B            BC-C            BC-D            BC-E                SC               ST                   PH           SPORTS          TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GRAND
MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL
              G        W         G        W       G        W        G       W       G       W       G       W       G       W       G        W       G        W       G            W       G       W       G       W

   MZ-I       -        01        -        -       -        -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -        -       -            -       -       -       -       01    01

   MZ-II      -        -         -        -       -        -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -        -       -            -       -       -       -       -      -

  TOTAL       -        01        -        -       -        -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -        -       -            -       -       -       -       01    01


                                                                                        Pc. No. 18:- LECTURER IN CHEMISTRY



                       OC             EWS                 BC-A          BC-B             BC-C           BC-D            BC-E                SC               ST               PH               SPORTS          TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GRAND
 MULTI ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL
                  G         W         G       W       G        W        G       W       G       W       G       W       G   W       G            W       G        W   G             W          G   W       G       W

    MZ-I          -         01        -       -       -        -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -    01          -        -       -            -       -       -       -   02    02

                                                                                                                                                                                    01
    MZ-II         02        01        -       -       -        01       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -    01          -        -       -                    -       -   02      04    06
                                                                                                                                                                                   (VH)

   TOTAL          02        02        -       -       -        01       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -    02          -        -       -        01          -       -   02      06    08
                                                                                                                                                     23




                                                            PC. NO. 19:- LECTURER IN PHYSICS


                 OC           EWS       BC-A    BC-B    BC-C         BC-D     BC-E         SC           ST           PH       SPORTS   TOTAL
                                                                                                                                               GRAND
MULIT ZONE
                                                                                                                                               TOTAL
             G        W   G        W    G   W   G   W   G      W    G   W    G    W   G         W   G        W   G        W   G   W    G   W

   MZ-I      -    -       -         -   -   -   -   -   -      -    -    -   -    -    -        -   -        -   -        -   -    -   -   -     -

   MZ-II     2        1   -    -        -   1   -   -   -      -    -    -   -    -    -        1   -        -   -        -   -    -   2   3     5

  TOTAL      2        1   -     -       -   1   -   -   -      -    -    -   -    -    -        1   -        -   -        -   -    -   2   3     5
                                    ANNEXURE-II

                  LIST OF BANKS FOR MAKING ONLINE PAYMENT

Sl.                                        Sl.
              Name of the Bank                            Name of the Bank
No.                                        No.
 1    Andhra Pragathi Grameena Bank        35     Kalyan Janata Sahakari Bank
 2    A U Small Finance Bank               36     Karnataka Bank Ltd
 3    Bandhan Bank                         37     Karnataka Gramin Bank
 4    Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait           38     Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank
 5    Bank of Baroda                       39     Karur Vysya Bank
 6    Bank of India                        40     Kotak Bank
 7    Bank of Maharashtra                  41     Laxmi Vilas Bank
 8    Bassien Catholic Coop Bank           42     Maharashtra Gramin Bank
 9    Canara Bank                          43     Mehsana urban Co-op Bank
10    Capital Small Finance Bank           44     NKGSB Co-op Bank
11    Catholic Syrian Bank                 45     North East Small Finance Bank Ltd
                                                  Nutan Nagarik Sahakari Bank
12    Central Bank of India                 46
                                                  Limited
13    City Union Bank                       47    Punjab & Sind Bank
14    Cosmos Bank                           48    Punjab National Bank
15    DCB Bank                              49    RBL Bank Limited
16    Deutsche Bank                         50    Saraswat Bank
17    Dhanlakshmi Bank                      51    SBM Bank India
                                                  Shivalik Mercantile Cooperative Bank
18    Digibank by DBS                       52
                                                  Ltd
19    Equitas Small Finance Bank            53    South Indian Bank
20    ESAF Small Finance Bank               54    State Bank of India
21    Federal Bank                          55    SVC Co-operative Bank Ltd
22    Fincare Bank                          56    Tamil Nadu State Co-operative Bank
      Gujarat State Co-operative Bank
23                                          57    Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Ltd.
      Limited
                                                  The Kalupur Commercial Co-
24    HDFC Bank                             58
                                                  Operative Bank
                                                  The Surat People’s Co-operative
25    HSBC Retail Net Banking               59
                                                  Bank Limited
26    ICICI Bank                            60    The Sutex Co-op Bank Ltd
27    IDBI Bank                             61    T J S B Bank
28    IDFC FIRST Bank                       62    UCO Bank
29    Indian Bank                           63    Union Bank of India
30    Indian Overseas Bank                  64    Utkarsh Small Finance Bank
31    Indus-Ind Bank                        65    Varachha Co-operative Bank Limited
32    Jammu & Kashmir Bank                  66    YES Bank Ltd
33    Jana Small Finance Bank               67    Zoroastrian Co-Operative Bank Ltd
34    Janata Sahakari Bank Ltd Pune
                                                                                           25


                                     ANNEXURE-III

 SCHEME AND SYLLABUS FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF LECTURERS IN
     GOVERNMENT POLYTECHNICS IN TECHNICAL EDUCATION SERVICE

                               SCHEME OF EXAMINATION

                                                      No. of          Duration
     Written Examination (Objective Type)                                          Marks
                                                     Questions        (Minutes)

               General Studies and General
Paper – I                                                150             150        150
               Abilities

Paper – II     Concerned Subject                         150             150        300

                               TOTAL MARKS                                          450


             Name of the Papers                         Language of Examination


Paper-I: General Studies and General Abilities       Bilingual i.e., English and Telugu


Paper-II: Concerned Subject                                       English Only




                           LIST OF CONCERNED SUBJECTS

1. Architectural Engineering                     11. Geology

                                                 12. Letter Press
2. Automobile Engineering
                                                     (Printing Technology)

3. Bio-Medical Engineering                       13. Mechanical Engineering


4. Chemical Engineering                          14. Metallurgy


5. Chemistry                                     15. Packaging Technology


6. Civil Engineering                             16. Pharmacy


7. Electrical and Electronics Engineering        17. Physics

8. Electronics and Communication
                                                 18. Tannery (Leather Technology)
   Engineering

9. Electronics and Instrumentation
                                                 19. Textile Technology
   Engineering

10. Footwear Technology
                                                                                                26



                                           SYLLABUS

                 PAPER – I: GENERAL STUDIES AND GENERAL ABILITIES

   1. Current affairs – Regional, National and International.
   2. International Relations and Events.
   3. General Science; India’s Achievements in Science and Technology.
   4. Environmental issues; Disaster Management- Prevention and Mitigation Strategies.
   5. Economic and Social Development of India and Telangana.
   6. Physical, Social and Economic Geography of India.
   7. Physical, Social and Economic Geography and Demography of Telangana.
   8. Socio-economic, Political and Cultural History of Modern India with special emphasis on
          Indian National Movement.
   9. Socio-economic, Political and Cultural History of Telangana with special emphasis on
          Telangana Statehood Movement and formation of Telangana state.
   10. Indian Constitution; Indian Political System; Governance and Public Policy.
   11. Social Exclusion; Rights issues such as Gender, Caste, Tribe, Disability etc. and
          inclusive policies.
   12. Society, Culture, Heritage, Arts and Literature of Telangana.
   13. Policies of Telangana State.
   14. Logical Reasoning; Analytical Ability and Data Interpretation.
   15. Basic English. (10th class Standard)

                                PAPER – II: CONCERNED SUBJECT


                   1. ARCHITECTURAL ENGINEERING (DEGREE LEVEL)


Basic Design: Design definition and description, Importance of Design, Fundamental
elements of Design, Principles of design, Colour Theory, elements of composition,
Anthropometrics Study, Ergonomics, Study of Different spaces, Optimum areas for
various functions, Space standards, Lighting and Ventilation standards for various
activities, Design Process and thinking and Introduction to the study of aesthetics.
Building Materials: Clay Bricks, Stones, Sand, Mortars, Cement, Concrete, Reinforced cement
concrete, Timber, Veneers, Paints and Varnishes, Glass, Rubber, Adhesives, Asphalt &
Bitumen, Plastics, Roofing & Flooring Materials, Metals, Ally Steels, Non-ferrous metals.
Building Construction: Foundations, Footings, Walls, Lintels, Carpentry & Joinery, Openings
(doors & windows), Composite Masonry, Partition Walls, Staircases, Cladding, Sloping and flat
roofs, Floorings, Structural steel work and Types of steel trusses
Architectural Drawing & Graphics: Importance of Scale, Different forms, Architectural
representation of different objects, Solid geometry, Building Geometry – isometric, axonometric,
etc., Types of Arches, Sciography, Perspectives, Rendering, visualization skills and importance
of free hand drawing.
Engineering Mechanics: Simple stress and strain, Types of stresses, elastic limit, modulus of
elasticity, Bending moment and shear forces, Moment of inertia, Deflection, Buckling & Crushing
failures, Slenderness ratio, Torsion, Design of RCC & Steel Structures.
Introduction of art and architecture: Importance of art, Development and exploration of art,
Relationship between art and architecture, Role of an architect in society, relationship with other
consultants, Technical knowledge and expertise, Evolution of Shelter forms.
History of Architecture: Architectural development in Egypt, Greek, Roman, Early Christian,
Romanesque, Gothic & Byzantine. Hindu & Islamic architecture. Influence of Industrial
revolution on building materials, construction technology, characteristic styles of modern
architecture, Arts and Crafts movement, Art Nouvean, Monumentalism, Expressionism and
pioneers of Modern architecture and their contributions.
Surveying and Site Studies: Principles of Surveying, Traversing & Plain table surveying,
Computation of Areas & leveling, Automated Surveying.
                                                                                              27


Water supply and Sanitary Engineering: Sources of water supply, Quality of water, Treatment
of water, Distribution system of water, Collection and Treatment of refuse, Sewage, Principles of
drainage, plumbing and Sanitary fittings and fixtures, Roads & Pavements.
Climatology: Building Climatology, Tropical Climates, Thermal Comfort, Heat flow, Natural
ventilation, Passive cooling, Sun & Design Process.
Landscape design and site planning: Importance and role of landscape designing, Historical
Perspective, Elements in Landscape design, Plants and design, Landscape construction.
Building Services: Electrical Services, Lighting, Air Conditioning, Elevators and Escalators,
Telephones and EPABX, Security systems, Fire fighting systems, Swimming pools, Energy
sources of building: wind energy, photo voltaic, Bio-mass, Waste Disposal: Industries &
Hospitals, Hotel services and Elevated flooring, Green Building Concepts: Energy conservation,
net zero energy consumption.
Sociology of Human settlements: Sociological aspects, Elements of society, Urbanization,
Historic Evolution, Transportation and communication, Principles of ekistics.
Economics, Estimating and Costing: Introduction on economics, Micro and Macroeconomics,
economic issues, Financing of a project, Quantity surveying and estimating (approximate and
detailed) and rate analysis.
Town Planning: Town forms in urban planning and development processes, various levels of
planning: national, regional, urban, rural, local etc., objectives of town planning, O-D surveys,
F.S.I. planning of industrial and recreational areas, urban renewals, TCPO and Town planning
organization in India and Geographical information systems (GIS).
Building Acoustics: Need to study acoustics, history of acoustics, generation, propagation,
transmission of sound, characteristics of sound, sensibility of human ear, resonance,
reverberation time, sabine’s formula, echoes, principles of acoustical design process and sound
isolation.
Advances Construction: Decay and Damage, Building Failures, Maintenance and Renovation,
Guniting, Strutting, Underpinning, Grouting, Propping, Effect of ageing, Weathering.
Professional Practice: Types of offices for practice, COA registration and rules, IIA Code
professional conduct, architects duties, principles of Indian contract act, Tenders, Contracts,
Easements, Arbitration, Valuation, Role of Consultants, Building Bye-laws, National Building
Code, Consumer protection act, transfer of property.
Computer Applications: Hardware and Software requirements, Operating systems, Features of
presentation package, drafting packages, benefits of Internet technology, visualization software
and building information modeling (BIM).

                     2. AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING (DEGREE LEVEL)


01. Heat Transfer and Thermodynamics:
Heat Transfer: Conduction – Convection - Thermal Radiation - Heat Exchangers.
Thermodynamics: Concepts of Thermodynamics – Zeroth Law of thermodynamics – First law of
thermodynamics – Second Law of thermodynamics – Entropy – Thermodynamic Processes and
Air standard cycles.
 02. Automobile Power Plants: I.C. Engines – Combustion in I.C. Engines and Combustion
chambers – Fuel supply systems in S.I and C.I engines – Inlet and Exhaust systems –
Automobile pollution and control systems – I.C Engine performance – Scavenging, super
charging and Turbo charging of Engines – Lubricants and Lubrication systems – Engine
Coolants and Cooling systems - Modern developments in I.C. Engines.
03. Strength of Materials: Simple stress and strain – Temperature stresses – Geometrical
properties – Shear force and Bending moment – Theory of simple bending – Theory of Torsion
– Deflection of beams.
04. Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulic Machinery: Fluid properties – Flow of Fluids - Flow past
immersed bodies – Oil power Hydraulic systems – Hydraulic Machinery.
05. Automobile Instrumentation: Electronic components used in an automobile – Sensors &
Transducers: Flow measurement - Temperature measurement – Speed measurement –
Pressure measurement – Distance measurement.
06. Automobile Chassis and Body Engineering: Frames & Chassis layout – Types of
automobile bodies – Body constructional materials – Body constructional details and
Ergonomics - Body Production methods – Aerodynamics – Automobile air conditioning, Heating
and Ventilating systems – Interior and Exterior Trimming – Noise and Acoustic insulation - Wind
screens.
 07. Automobile Transmission and Control systems: Automobile Transmission systems –
Wheels, Tyres and tubes - Steering system - Wheel balancing and alignment – Braking system
– Suspension system – Traction control systems – Safety systems.
                                                                                               28


08. Automobile Electrical Systems: Electricity and Magnetism – Electromagnetic Induction –
Batteries – Self starter and Drive mechanisms – Generating Systems: D.C Generator - Voltage
Regulator, Current regulator, Cut-out relay – Alternators, Electronic Voltage regulator – Ignition
systems - Dash board Instruments and Gauges - Automobile illumination and Accessories –
Automobile wiring systems: General Color coding of wires used, Wiring harness and earth
return systems.
09. Material Science: Crystallography of metals – Binary alloys – Constitution and equilibrium
diagrams – Methods of studying metal structure – Heat treatment - Non Ferrous metals and
alloys – Destructive and Non destructive Tests.
10. Kinematics and Dynamics of Machines:
Kinematics – Velocity and Acceleration – Properties of instantaneous centre – Gears & Gears
trains – Cams – Governors – Brakes and dynamometers – Clutches – Power transmission –
Belt and Chain drives.
Dynamics of Machines: Static force Analysis – Dynamic Force Analysis – Dynamics of
Reciprocating Engines – Balancing – Vibration Analysis of Single degree freedom systems –
Torsional Vibrations – Vibration isolation.
11. Design of Automobile Parts: Design of Riveted and welded joints - Design of Bolts & Nuts
– Shafts and Axles – Springs – Bearings – Clutches – Brakes – Design of engine components:
Piston - Connecting rod – Crank shaft - Fly wheel.
12. Production Technology: Machine tools – Lathes – Shaper, planner and slotting machines
– Drilling and boring machine – Milling – Grinding & Lapping– Welding – Brazing – Foundry –
Modern machining Trends.
13. Industrial Engineering & Management: Industrial management – Personnel Management
– Production Management – Production Planning and control – Wages and incentives – Cost
Control – Quality management - Marketing and Sales Promotion.
14. Electric vehicles: Types and systems, Types of electrical motors used as drive motors and
relative advantages and limitations – Charging methods – Electronic controller – Regenerative
braking system – Hybrid vehicles: Types and systems.
15. Transport Management and Legal aspects of Motor Transport: Organisational structure
– Operations – Planning of the fleet – Bus and Crew scheduling – Transport economics – Fare
collection and Fare fixation methods – Legal aspects of Motor Transport.
16. Farm tractors: Classification of tractors – Main systems or assemblies of tractors – P.T.O
systems in Tractors – Depth and draft control in tractor –Draw bar and its setting at exact height
– Types of hitches – Hitching of implements.
17. Special Purpose Vehicles: Earth movers: Shovels – Backhoe – Dragline – Scrapers - Bull
Dozers - Comparison between wheel dozer and Crawler dozer – Dozer blades - Mobile cranes
– Dumpers.
18. Automobile Electronics: Electronic fuel systems – Electronic steering systems – Electronic
Suspension systems – Computerized instrument systems – GPS system – CAN communication
system – Engine Management: Electronic Control Unit (ECU) – Engine control module – Tyre
pressure monitoring system – Immobilizer – Central locking systems.
19. Automobile Servicing and Maintenance: Automobile Service Station Equipment - Types
of Maintenance – Machines and equipments used for Servicing and Re-conditioning –
Servicing, Maintenance and Trouble diagnosis charts of various automobile systems.

                     3. BIO-MEDICAL ENGINEERING (DEGREE LEVEL)

Respiratory Measurements and Aid; Principles and techniques of impedance pneumography
and pneumotachograph.
Ventilators : Parameters, system Concepts, Flow Gauges, Valves Humidifiers. Birds, Emerson,
Bear Ventilators.
Audiometry: Common Tests and procedures, Air-conduction, Bone Conduction, Masking,
Schematic Functional Diagram of an Audiometer.
Electro-Surgical Equipment: Electro - Surgical Units: Principles of Cutting, Coagulation, Spark
Gap, Valve Transistorized Generators, Safety Features.
Laser: Basic Principles of Laser, Different types of Laser Equipment used in Surgery, Safety.
Fibre Optics: Principles and Applications: Endoscopes, Neonatal instrumentation, Incubators,
Ophthalmic Instrumentation: Intra - ocular Pressure Measurement, Contacting and Non-
contacting Types, Refractometers.
Anesthesia Equipment, Boyle's Apparatus, Gas Distribution Systems.
Ultrasound Applications for Surgery: Lithotripsy, Principles and Applications.
Introduction to Bio-Medical Instrumentation. General Characteristics of medical instrumentation
like linearity, range, frequency response, signal-to-noise ratio and stability.
                                                                                                  29


Amplifiers for Bio-Medical applications: Differential, Carrier amplifiers, Instrumentation amplifier,
Isolation amplifier. Phase sensitive detector for LVDT. Principles of wave generation and
shaping. Recorders and play devices for Bio-Medical applications. General features of ink-jet,
thermosensitive and optical recorders. General features of display devices for bio-signals.
Significance of non-fade display, Data acquisition and display using micro computers. ECG
recording system. Block schematic diagram of ECG machine; amplifiers: circuits for ECG.
Special types of ECG recorders. Noise problems and their elimination.
Electro-encephalography: Block schematic diagram of EEG recording system. General features
of different blocks : specification of EEG amplifiers : qualitative requirements, 10-20 electrode
system, Resting Rhythms and sleep stages.
Electro Myography: Block schematic diagram of EMG recording system. Measurement of nerve
conduction velocity, EMG amplifiers. Design considerations of EMG amplifiers. Data display for
EMG.
Blood Pressure and blood flows. Electronic techniques for indirect and direct measurement of
blood pressure: measurement of blood flow by electromagnetic, doppler and plethysmographic
methods.
Phonocardiography: Origin of heart sounds. Phonocardiographic instrumentation consisting of
microphone, filters and signal conditioners.
Introduction to Radiography: Physical properties of; X-rays. Principles of generation of X-rays.
Radiation energy distribution. Collimators and grids, Fluoroscopy. Image intensifiers. Digital X-
ray system, Digital Mammographic X-ray Equipment.
Methods of Chemical analysis: Absorption photometry: Emission photometry; Fluorometry,
Beer-Lamberts Law, Introduction to autoanalyzer. Chromatography for blood gas analysis,
Colorimeters., Spectrophotometers, Electrophoresis, Principle of pH meter.
Electrical hazards during Bioelectric monitoring: safety, Codes, Standards.               Micro and
Macroshock and their physiological effects. Leakage currents and protection by use of isolation
transformers. Equipotential grounding and earth free monitoring.
Electrical factors in Hospital Design : Electrical power supply systems in a hospital building,
Proper installation and grounding for providing safety to the patient - electrical environment.
Ultrasonics: Basic principles of Medical Ultrasonics, Echo Techniques, Functional Block
Diagram of Basic Pulse-Echo System for Diagnostic Purposes. Different Display Modes A-
Mode, B-Mode, M-Mode, Types of Scan-B Scan, Principles of Echocardiography and
Echoencephalography with Schematic Block Diagrams. Sector Scanners, and phased array
scanners.
Introduction to Doppler Ultrasound, Blood flow through heart valves, peripheral vessels -
Doppler flow meter. Display Devices for Ultrasonic Echo Imaging. Biological Effects of
Ultrasound and Safety Precautions.
Magnetic Resonance Imaging: Basic Principles of Magnetic Resonance Imaging. Signal
Excitation and Detection. Schematic Functional Diagram of MRI Scanner with its sub-systems.
Magnet, Gradient system. R.F. Transmitter Receiver system, Computer and Image Display,
Reconstruction Techniques, Medical Applications and safety precautions.
Computed Tomography: Basic Principles, System Components and Functions of Scanning
System, Processing Unit, CT- Generations, CT-Detectors, Reconstruction Techniques - Viewing
systems, storage and documentation. Medical applications and safety precautions.
Radio Nuclide Imaging: Principle, Radio-Isotopes in medical diagnosis, Radiation detectors,
Pulse height Analyzers, Schematic functional diagram and Components of Gamma Camera.
Medical Applications, safety and precautions.
Medical Thermography: Basic Principle, Functional Block Diagram of thermo graphic
equipment, scanning and display arrangements for Infra-Red Imaging, Medical applications.
Position emission tomography: Basic Principles, Nuclear Reactions and production of
precursors. Detector Materials reconstruction techniques. Principle of SPECT and applications.
Defibrillators: D.C. Defibrillators of capacitive discharge and delay line capacitive discharge with
basic circuit diagrams. Types of electrodes and their features. Implantable Defibrillators,
Testing and safety.
Cardioverters: Working Principles, Scheme of synchronizing D.C. Defibrillators with the R-wave
of ECG. Testing and safety. Cardiac pacemakers: Types -
    i.   Asynchronous and Synchronous (demand) mode of operation.
   ii.   External and implantable, Asynchronous Pacemakers.
Working principles, block diagram and circuit diagram of blocking oscillator asynchronous
pacemaker.
Synchronous / Demand Pacemaker: Working principles, modes of triggering-ventricular
triggered (QRS triggered) and atrioventricular synchronized pacemaker (P wave triggered).
Implantable pacemaker: Technical and qualitative requirements of power supplies, lead wires
and electrodes. Transcutaneous R.F. powered Cardiac pacemaker system. Susceptibility of
implanted pacemaker to electrical interference and remedial measure. Assist Devices for the
Heart: Principles of external counter-pulsation techniques. Infra-aortic Balloon pump. Auxiliary
ventricle and schematic for temporary by-pass of left ventricle.
                                                                                               30


Biomaterials: Significance of Biocompatibility, Types of biomaterials, in-vitro,in-vivo testing of
biomaterials, Factors influencing implants, Orthopedic Implants, Ophthalmic & Dental
applications of Biomaterials.
 Prosthetic Heart Valves: Qualitative requirements. Categories Mechanical and tissue valves.
Types of mechanical Valves - ball and cage, tilting disc and bi-leaflet valves. Types of tissue
valves - Homograft or allograft (human cadaver) and Heterografts or Xenografts (Porcine or
Bovine). In vitro performance testing of prosthetic heart valves using a pulse duplicator.
Heart- Lung Machine: Governing principles, qualitative requirements, functional details of
bubble, thin film and membrane - Type of blood oxygenators.
Hemodialyzer: Qualitative requirements. General Scheme of operation. Types of Exchangers,
block diagram, electronic control and monitoring systems.
Intensive Coronary Care Concepts: Systems organization, Critical Physiological parameters to
be monitored. Bedside patient monitors, central station, Apnoea monitor, Layout and safety
precautions.
Physical Therapy Equipment. Short wave, Microwave and Ultrasonic diathermy. Electrical
stimulators.
Nernst equation - derivation and its significance. Refractory period. Characteristics of stimulus.
Strength-duration relationship. Electrical equivalent circuit of an axon. Membrane time and
space constants. Hodgkin Huxley formulation. Membrane conductance. Nerve conduction
membrane properties from current voltage relations, models of squid axon. Propagation of
impulses in unmyelinated and myelinated nerve fibre. Electrical properties of receptors.
Generator potential of Receptors. Intensity-frequency relationship. Electrical properties of
synaptic junctions - EPSP and IPSP.
Electrical Activity of the heart. Conduction system of the heart. Characteristics of Action
potentials at SA mode, via, AV Node, purkinje firbres and ventricles, ECG complexes. The
international standard 12 leads of ECG. Standard leads of Einthoven, precordial leads and
augmented limb leads. Relationship between unipolar leads and standard bipolar leads.
Volume conductor fields: Bio-electric sources, Volume-conductor formulation. Solid angle
computation. Infinite cylindrical axon, core conductor model non-homogenous media, integral
equations.
Electrical activity of skeletal muscles-motor unit potentials. EMG wave form. Surface and
needle electrodes for EMG. Velocity and their changes in normal and abnormal states. Fatigue
and conduction - chemical significance.
Introduction to bioelectric Phenomena of hearing - Mechanical equivalent schematic diagram of
the ear. Mechanical transformer of the middle ear. Frequency analysis of sound by the basilar
membrane. Cochlear microphonics.
Interaction between Engineering and life sciences. Definition of Biomedical Engineering, its
scope. The role of Biomedical Engineer in Health care delivery systems. Medical Electronics
Industry Research, Development and education.
Application of Engineering concepts and methods for understanding Physiological systems.
Basic electrical and Mechanical properties skeletal systems, muscular system, heart and brain.
Nervous system as an internal communication system of the human body, Sense Organs.
Electrophysiology: Functional structure of a cell. Basis of biopotentials. Resting potential of a
nerve cell and its ionic mechanisms. Properties of excitable membranes. Action potential
generation, its ionic mechanism and its characteristics.
Physiological signals, Characteristics, Basis of ECG, EMG, EEG and qualitative treatment of
instrumentation for measuring these signals.
Biopotential, Electrodes, Electrode - Electrolyte Interface. Internal electrodes like needle
electrodes and microelectrodes.
Equivalent circuit Properties.
Transducers for physiological application. Static-types like variable R.L. & C, LVDT, Therma
couples, Thermistors Photo electric and Dynamic types like piezoelectric and moving coil type
and their applications. Special requirements.
Development of instrumentation for Clinical practice and Medical Research, Introduction.
Comparative study of industrial and Medical Instrumentation. Basic classification of Medical
Instruments, Instrument characteristics, linearity, range, frequency response, signal to noise
ratio and stability.
Broad classification of Biomedical Instrumentation for Clinical practice that is:
    1. Instrumentation for Diagnosis, ECG, EEG, EMG, PCG etc.,
    2. Therapeutic Devices - Stimulators, diathermy equipments etc.,
    3. Prosthetic Devices - Pacemakers, Artificial Organs.
    4. Visualizing Devices - X-ray, Ultrasound etc., fibre optic endoscope.
    5. Electrosurgical Devices - HF Surgery, Laser Surgery.
    6. Data Storage & Analysis - Computers in medicine.
    7. Analytical Instruments - Photocolorimetry, Spectrophoto Meter, Electrophoresis,
        Centrifuges, Waterbath etc., Hospital illumination, Theatre illumination, Requirements
        and typical arrangements. Miscellaneous equipment’s.
                                                                                             31


                   4. CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (DEGREE LEVEL)

1. Fluid Mechanics : Dimensional analysis, fluid statics, fluid flow phenomena, basic
    equations of fluid flow, flow of incompressible fluids in pipes – Newtonian and non-
    Newtonian fluids, viscosity, Bernoulli’s theorem, friction losses, friction factor, Hagen–
    Poiseuille equation. Turbulent flow, Transportation and metering of fluids. Different
    types of pumps for transportation of fluids -Calculation of pump power for transportation
    of fluids, flow meters – orifice, Venturi and Rotameters. Flow past immersed bodies,
    fluidization - packed bed and fluidized bed.
2. Heat Transfer: Conduction in solids – Steady state and unsteady state. Heat flow in
    fluids – overall heat transfer coefficient, Log-mean temperature difference, calculation of
    individual heat transfer coefficient and overall heat transfer coefficient. Fouling factors,
    Heat transfer to fluids without phase change – Thermal boundary layer, heat transfer by
    forced convention in laminar flow and in turbulent flow, empirical equations; Heat
    transfer from condensing vapors. Types of heat exchange equipment, counter current
    and parallel current flows. Evaporation – liquid characteristics and important properties,
    types of evaporators, condensers, ejectors- evaporator economy- single and multiple
    effects –related problems. Radiation – fundamentals, emission of radiation, black body
    radiation, laws of black body radiation – radiation between surfaces.
3. Mass Transfer: Molecular diffusion in fluids, inter phase mass transfer, mass transfer
    coefficients, Distillation (binary system), gas absorption and adsorption, liquid-liquid
    extraction, leaching, humidification, drying and crystallization operations. Equipment for
    distillation, gas absorption, liquid-liquid extraction, drying, humidification and
    crystallization.
4. Reaction Engineering: Rate of reaction, variables affecting the rate of reaction.
    Interpretation of kinetic data in batch and flow systems. Theories of reaction rate,
    classification of reactors, design equations for batch and flow reactors, Catalysis.
5. Thermodynamics: First law of thermodynamics – Internal energy, Enthalpy, heat
    capacity, PVT relationships for gases, first law for open systems. Second law of
    thermodynamics – statement, entropy function, calculations of entropy changes. Free
    energy functions. Calculation of enthalpy and entropy as function of pressure and
    temperature, Heat effects. Criteria for equilibrium and their application.
6. Mechanical Operations: Size reduction, Properties, Handling and Mixing of particulate
    solids, laws of size reduction- crushers and grinders. Different types of equipments for
    mixing dry powders, differential and cumulative screen analysis, screen effectiveness,
    average particle size .Mechanical separations, Screening, Filtration, Sedimentation, froth
    floatation. Conveying and Storage of solids.
7. Process Technology : Manufacture of following chemical products in process industries
    – Location and uses – Water, Inorganic chemical industries (sulfuric acid, phosphoric
    acid, Soda ash, Caustic soda and Chlorine industry), fertilizers (Ammonia, Urea, SSP
    and TSP); natural products industries (Pulp and Paper, Sugar, Oil, and Fats); petroleum
    refining and petrochemicals ( Coal chemicals, coking of coal, coal tar distillation,
    petroleum refining-atmospheric distillation and vacuum distillation , fluid catalytic
    cracking , catalytic reforming , petrochemicals from methane and ethylene);
    polymerization industries (polyethylene, polypropylene, PVC and polyester synthetic
    fibres). Cement, Electro thermal industries; Calcium carbide, Silicon carbide, Graphite,
    Pigments and Paints.
8. Material and Energy Balances : Basic calculations, Determination of molarity, molality &
    normality, analysis of solids , liquids and gases on dry and wet basis , Daltons law , ideal
    gas equation of state , vapor pressure boiling point and freezing point , elevation of
    boiling point and depression of freezing point-uses, Bypassing ,Recycling & purge
    streams – uses , limiting component , excess reactant , percentage conversion & yield
    and degree of completion , Material balances with and without chemical reactions, law of
    conservation of energy , heat of reaction , heat of formation , and heat of combustion –
    related problems , gross and net calorific values , theoretical air and excess air
    calculations
9. Instrumentation and Process Control: Qualities of measurement, measurement of
    temperature, pressure and vacuum, liquid level, density and viscosity, composition and
    analysis. Process control _ Automatic process control – Elements of a control system-
    Static and dynamic characteristics of an instrument – Controllers modes of control and
    its applications.
10. Material technology: Mechanical properties of metals and Testing of materials – thermal
    equilibrium diagram- Production of Iron-plain carbon steels, alloy steels - Miscellaneous
    materials – Glass, carbon, graphite, rubber, elastomers, fiberglass and FRP etc. –
    Corrosion causes, types, methods of prevention .
11. Environmental Studies and Pollution Control Engineering: Scope and importance of
    environmental studies, segments, Eco systems, bio diversity, water pollution, types,
    classification, treatment methods, air pollution, types, classification, analysis, control
                                                                                                 32


    methods, solid waste management, sources, classification, disposal, pollution control in
    sugar, fertilizer & petroleum industries, legal aspects.
12. Energy Technology & Plant Operation: Classification of energy sources-Solid, Liquid,
    and Gaseous fuels – Combustion principles, Refractories, Furnaces - Blast Furnace, LD
    Converter - Nuclear Energy, Solar Energy, Wind Energy and Bio-Energy – Energy
    Conservation - Industrial Hazards and Prevention -Safety and first AID.

                       5. CHEMISTRY (POST GRADUATE LEVEL)

INORGANIC CHEMISTRY:
1. Atomic structure and chemical bonding – structure and bonding in homo and hetero
    nuclear molecules. Application of VSEPR, Valence Bond and Molecular orbital theories
    in explaining the structures of simple molecules.
2. Chemistry of main group (I to VII & Nobel gases) elements.
3. Chemistry of transition elements and inner transition elements.
4. General principles of metallurgy: Occurrence of metals, Concentration of ores -
    levigation, magnetic separation, froth floatation, leaching, Extraction of crude metal
            from concentrated ore-conversion to oxide, reduction of oxide to the metal,
    Thermodynamic principles of metallurgy-Ellingham diagram limitations, applications.
            Extraction of iron, copper and zinc from their oxides, Electrochemical principles
    of metallurgy, Oxidation and reduction, Refining of crude metal-distillation, liquation
            poling, electrolysis, zone refining and vapour phase refining, Uses of aluminium,
    copper, zinc and iron. Alloys: Inter-metallic compounds
5. Coordination Chemistry –IUPAC nomenclature, bonding theories – Werner’s theory,
    EAN rule, VBT, Crystal Field Theory – Crystal Field splitting patterns in various
    geometries, Factors affecting on CFT. Calculation of CFSE – John Teller effect –
    Isomerism in complexes. Spectral and magnetic properties of Coordination complexes –
    Russell Sanders coupling – term symbols - charge transfer spectra of complexes.
6. Stability of metal complexes – Stepwise and overall stability constants – Factors
    affecting the stability of metal complexes - Chelate effect. Pearson’s theory of hard
            and soft acids and bases (HSAB).
7. Reaction mechanism of metal complexes–Inert and labile complexes – Ligand
    substitution reaction of octahedral complexes – Acid hydrolysis, Base hydrolysis –
    Conjugate base mechanism – Anation reactions – Substitution reactions of square
    planar complexes – Trans effect – Electron transfer reactions – Inner and outer sphere
    mechanisms.
8. Metal carbonyls, Nitrosyls and Metallocenes - Structure and bonding.
9. Bio-inorganic chemistry- Metal complexes as oxygen carriers-Hemoglobin and
    myoglobin-Oxygen transport – Non heme proteins – Hemerythrin and hemocyanin.
10. Analytical chemistry- Chromatography – General principles involved in separations
            by Paper, Thin layer, Column Chromatography, GC and HPLC.
PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY:
1. Solutions and colligative properties: Types of solutions, Expressing concentration of
            solutions mass percentage, volume percentage, mass by volume percentage,
   parts per        million, mole fraction, molarity and molality, Solubility: Solubility of a solid
   in a liquid, solubility of a gas in a liquid, Henry’s law, Vapour pressure of liquid solutions:
            vapour pressure of liquid- liquid solutions. Raoult’s law as a special case of
   Henry’s          law -vapour pressure of solutions of solids in liquids, Ideal and non-ideal
   solutions, Colligative properties and determination of molar mass - Relative lowering of
   vapour pressure, elevation of boiling point, Depression of freezing point, Osmosis and
   osmotic pressure-reverse osmosis and water purification. Abnormal molar masses -
   van’t Hoff factor. Phase equilibria– Phase rule and its application to one component and
   two component systems
2. Acids and bases: Acids, bases and salts- Arrhenius, Bronsted-Lowry and Lewis
   concepts of acids and bases. Ionisation of Acids and Bases –Ionisation constant of
   water and it’s ionic product- pH scaleionisation constant of weak acids and weak bases-
   relation between Ka and Kb. Di and poly basic acids and di and poly acidic Bases-
   Factors affecting acid strength-Common ion effect in the ionization of acids and bases-
   Hydrolysis of salts and pH of their solutions. Buffer solutions.
3. Thermodynamics: Brief review of concepts of I and II laws of thermodynamics. Concept
   of entropy. Entropy as a state function. Calculation of entropy changes in various
   processes. Entropy changes in an ideal gas. Entropy changes on mixing of ideal gases.
   Entropy as a function of V and T. Entropy as a function of P and T. Entropy change in
   isolated systems- Clausius inequality. Entropy change as criterion for spontaneity and
   equilibrium. Third law of thermodynamics. Evaluation of absolute entropies from heat
   capacity data for solids, liquids and gases. Standard entropies and entropy changes of
                                                                                                 33


      chemical reactions. Helmholtz and Gibbs free energies (A and G). A and G as criteria for
      equilibrium and spontaneity. Physical significance of A and G. Driving force for chemical
      reactions- relative signs of ?H and ?S. Thermodynamic relations. Gibbs equations.
      Maxwell relations. Temperature dependence of G. Gibbs- Helmholtz equation. Pressure
      dependence of G. Chemical potential: Gibbs equations for non-equilibrium systems.
      Material equilibrium. Phase equilibrium. Clapeyron equation and Clausius-Clapeyron
      equation. Conditions for equilibrium in a closed system. Chemical potential of ideal
      gases. Ideal-gas reaction equlibrium-derivation of equilibrium constant. Temperature
      dependence of equilibrium constant - The Van’t         hoff equation.
 4. Electrochemistry: Conductance and its applications, Derivation of Nernst equation.
    Chemical and concentration cells (with and without transference). Liquid junction potential
    – derivation of the expression for L J P – its determination and elimination. Applications of
    EMF measurements: Solubility product, potentiometric titrations,        determination         of
    transport numbers, equilibrium constant measurements.           Decomposition potential and
    its significance. Electrode polarization – its causes and       elimination.     Concentration
    over potential. Concept of activity and activity coefficients in electrolytic solutions. The
    mean ionic activity coefficient. Debye-Huckel theory of electrolytic solutions. Debye-
    Huckel limiting law. Calculation of mean ionic activity coefficient. Limitations of Debye-
    Huckel theory. Extended Debye-Huckel law. Theory of electrolytic conductance.
    Derivation of Debye-Huckel-Onsager equation – its validity and limitations. Concept of ion
    association – Bjerrum theory of ion association (elementary treatment) - ion association
    constant – Debye-Huckel-Bjerrum equation.
 5. Quantum chemistry: Black body radiation-Planck’s concept of quantization-Planck’s
      equation, average energy of an oscillator. Wave particle duality and uncertainty principle
      - significance for microscopic entities. Emergence of quantum mechanics. Wave
      mechanics and Schrödinger wave equation. Operators - operator algebra: Commutation
      of operators, linear operators, Complex functions, Hermitian operators. Operators and.
      Eigen functions and Eigen values. Degeneracy. Linear combination of Eigen functions of
      an operator. Well behaved functions. Normalized and orthogonal functions. Postulates of
      quantum mechanics. Physical interpretation of wave function. Observables and
      operators. Measurability of operators. Average values of observables. The time
      dependent Schrodinger equation. Separation of variables and the time-independent
      Schrodinger equation.
 6. Chemical kinetics: Theories of reaction rates - Collision theory, Transition state theory,
      Reaction coordinate, activated complex and the transition state. Thermodynamic
      formulation of transition state theory. Unimolecular reactions and Lindeman’s theory.
 7. Photochemistry: Electronic transitions in molecules - The Franck Condon principle.
      Electronically excited molecules- singlet and triplet states. Radiative life times of excited
    states-theoretical treatment. Measured lifetimes. Quantum yield and its determination.
    Actinometry - ferrioxalate and uranyl oxalate actinometers. Derivation of fluorescence and
    phosphorescence quantum yields. E-type delayed fluorescence- evaluation of triplet
    energy splitting (?EST). Laws of photo chemistry, Photo physical processes, photo
    physical kinetics of unimolecular reactions. Calculation of rate        constants of various
    photo physical processes, State diagrams, photochemical primary processes. Types of
    photochemical reactions- electron transfer, photo dissociation, addition, abstraction,
    oxidation and isomerisation reactions with examples. Effect of light intensity on the rates
    of photochemical reactions. Photosensitization. Quenching-Stern Volmer equation.
    Experimental set up of a photochemical reaction. Introduction to fast reactions- Principles
    of flash photolysis.
8. Solid state chemistry: General characteristics of solid state. Classification of crystalline
   solids based on different binding forces, probing the structure of solids: X-ray
   crystallography, Crystal lattices and unit cells. Bravais lattices- primitive and centred unit
   cells, Number of atoms in a unit cell (primitive, body centred and face centred cubic unit
   cell), Close packed structures: Close packing in one dimension, in two dimensions and in
   three dimensions- tetrahedral and octahedral voids- formula of a compound and number of
   voids filled- locating tetrahedral and octahedral voids, Packing efficiency in simple cubic,
   bcc and in hcp, ccp lattice. Calculations involving       unit cell dimensions density of the
   unit cell. Imperfections in solids-types of point defects-stoichiometric         and       non-
   stoichiometric defects. Magnetic properties of solids- classification of magnetic materials,
   Magnetic susceptibility, Langevin diamagnetism, Weiss theory of para magnetism.
   Magnetic properties of solids - classification of         magnetic      materials,     Magnetic
   susceptibility, Langevin diamagnetism, Weiss theory of para magnetism Electronic
   properties of metals, insulators and semi conductors: Electronic structure of solids, Band
   theory, band structure of metals, insulators and semiconductors. Electrons holes and
   excitons. The temperature dependence of conductivity of extrinsic semi conductors. Photo
   conductivity and photovoltaic effect.
                                                                                            34


ORGANIC CHEMISTRY:
 1. IUPAC nomenclature of organic molecules. Isomerism – classification of isomers.
 2. Classification, preparations and properties of alkane, alkenes, alkynes, cyclo alkanes,
     aromatic hydrocarbons, halogen compounds, hydroxy compounds, carbonyl
     compounds, carboxylic acids and its derivatives.
 3. Stereo chemistry: Molecular representations (Wedge, Fisher, Newman and Saw-horse
    projection formula) their description and interconversions. Stereoisomers –
    lassification- configuration- R,S- Nomenclature, criteria for chirality, Axial chirality of
    allenes, spiranes, alkylidenes, Cycloalkanes, chiral biaryls - Atropisomerism. Planar
    chirality of ansa compounds and trans- cyclooctene. Helical chiral compounds.
    Determination of absolute configuration by chemical correlation methods.
    Determination of configuration in E,Z- nomenclature. Spectral and chemical methods
    for determination of E, Zconfiguration, including aldoxime and ketoximes.
 4. Introduction to conformational isomerism, Klyne - Prelog terminology for conformers and
     torsion angles, dihedral angle, Steric strain and the concept of dynamic
     stereoisomerism. Study of conformations of acyclic compounds like ethane, butane,
     dihalobutanes, halohydrin, ethylene glycol, butane-2, 3-diol, amino alcohols and
     1,1,2,2-tetrahalobutanes.
 5. Nature of bonding in organic molecules and aromaticity, delocalized chemical bonding,
    conjugation, cross conjugation, resonance, hyperconjugation, tautomerism, Huckel’s
    Rule and the concept of aromaticity-Aromaticity, non-aromaticity and anti aromaticity.
 6. Reactive intermediate: Generation, detection, structure, stability and reactivity of
    carbocation, carbanion, free radical, carbene and nitrene. Molecular rearrangements:
    definition and classification, molecular rearrangements involving 1). Electron deficient
    carbon: Wagner - Meerwein, Pinacol-Pinacolone, allylic and Wolf rearrangement. 2).
    Electron deficient Nitrogen: Hofmann, Lossen, Curtius, Schmidt and Beckmann
    rearrangements. 3) Electron deficient Oxygen: Baeyer-Villiger oxidation. 4). Base
    catalysed rearrangements: Benzylic acid, Favourski, Tran annular, Sommlett-Hauser
    and Smile rearrangement.
 7. Organic reaction mechanism: Mechanism, stereochemistry and energy profile diagram
    of Addition reactions to polar and non polar double bonds. Substitution reactions:
    Mechanism, rate law, stereochemistry and factors affecting on aliphatic and aromatic
    reactions. Elimination reactions- mechanism, rate law, stereochemistry, orientation and
    factors affecting on E1, E2, E1CB, pyrolytic syn elimination and a-elimination,
    elimination vs substitution. Detection of reaction mechanism by product isolation,
    isotopic labelling, chemical trapping and crossover experiments.
 8. Oxidation- Swern, Cr (VI) oxidants, Oxidative cleavage of 1,2-diols - Periodic acid and
    Lead tetra acetate.
 9. Reductions - Wilkinsons’s catalytic hydrogenation, LiAlH4, NaBH4, BH3, AlH3 and
     DIBAL.
 10. Heterocyclic chemistry: importance as drugs, nomenclature, classification based on
     size of the ring, number and nature of hetero atoms. Synthesis and reactivity of Pyrrole,
     furan, Thiophene, pyridine, Indole, Benzothiophene, Quinoline, Isoqunolines.
 11. Alkaloids and Terpenoids- importance as drugs, isolation of natural products by steam
     distillation, solvent extraction and chemical methods. Structure determination and
     synthesis of papverine, nicotine and quinine. General methods in the structure
     determination of Terpenes, isoprene rule, special isoprene rule, structure determination
     of a-Terpeniol and camphor.
 12. Organic photochemistry: photochemical energy, Frank-Condon principle, Jablonski
     diagram, Electronic transitions, photosensitization, quenching, quantum efficiency,
            quantum yield, photochemistry of carbonyl compounds n?p* and p?p* transitions.
            Norrish type-I and Norrish type-II cleavages. Paterno-Buchi reactions,
     Photoreduction, photochemistry of enones- hydrogen abstraction, rearrangements of
     a,ß-unsaturated ketones and cyclohexadienones, photochemistry of pbenzoquinones,
     Dienes - photochemistry of 1,3- butadiene, (2+2) additions, Di-p-methane
     rearrangement, photochemistry of aromatic compounds, excited states of benzene and
     its 1,2-, 1,4- additions.
 13. Pericyclic reactions: Classification, Stereochemistry of pericyclic reactions, Molecular
     Orbitals and Symmetry of ethelene, 1,3-butadiene, 1,3,5-hexatriene, allylic, 1,3-
     pentadienyl and 1,3,5-heptatrienyl p- systems. Analysis of pericyclic reactions by PMO,
     FMO and orbital correlation methods.
                                                                                           35


 14. Basic principles, concepts of UV, IR, H1NMR, C13NMR and Mass spectroscopic
     methods – structure determination of organic compounds by UV, IR, H1NMR, C13NMR
     and Mass spectroscopic methods.
 15. Green chemistry: Principles of Green chemistry, and its approaches.

                       6. CIVIL ENGINEERING (DEGREE LEVEL)

1. Building Materials And Construction:
   Bricks– Types of Bricks, Indian standard classification, properties; Stones – Types of
   stones, classification, properties, dressing and polishing of stones; Methods of
   Quarrying; Cement – Different grades and types of cement, properties and IS
   specifications; Aggregates – coarse and fine aggregate, properties and IS specifications;
   Cement Mortar – Proportions of cement mortar for various applications; Concrete –
   Constituents of Concrete, Different grades of Concrete, mix proportioning using IS
   Code, Properties of fresh and hardened Concrete; Admixtures – Types of Admixtures.
2. Strength of Materials And Theory of Structures:
     Strength of Materials: Simple stresses and strains, elastic constants and relationship
     between them; Compound bars; Temperature stresses; Shear forces and bending
     moment diagrams for beams; Principal stresses and Mohr’s circle of stress, Theory of
     bending and bending stresses; Shear stress distribution; Theory of torsion; Springs;
     Deflections of beams; Thin and thick cylinders;; Analysis of trusses, Betti-Maxwell
     theorem; Shear centre and unsymmetrical bending.
     Theory of Structures: Direct and bending stresses; Columns and struts; Strain energy
     method; Moving loads and influence lines; Arches and suspension bridges; Static and
     kinematic indeterminacy; Moment distribution, Slope deflection, and Kani’s methods
     applied to continuous beams and portal frames; matrix methods of analysis.
3.   Cement Concrete and Steel Structures:
   Concrete Structures: Materials, permissible stresses and IS Specifications; Working
   stress methods; Limit State Method - Stress Blocks parameters, design of Beams,
   Slabs, Columns and Footing; Design for Shear and Torsion; Design of Retaining Walls,
   Water tanks, and T-Beam Slab bridges; Yield line theory.
   Steel Structures: Properties of steel sections, permissible stresses, IS Specifications;
   Riveted and welded joints and connections; Design of simple and compound Beams and
   Columns, Column bases, Roof trusses, Plate and Gantry Girders; Plate Girder Lattice
   Girder Railway bridges, and Bearings. Plastic analysis.
   Pre-Stressed Concrete: Basic concepts, material for pre-stressing, losses in Pre-stress,
   classification of pre-stressing system; Analysis of PSC Sections.
4. Fluid Mechanics and Hydraulics:
   Fluid Properties; Measurement of Pressure - Manometers; Fluid Kinematics –
   Classification of Fluids, Stream function and Velocity potential, significance and use of
   Flownets, Fluid dynamics - Continuity equation, Bernoulli’s equations and Impulse
   momentum equation; Laminar and Turbulent flow through pipes – significance of
   Reynolds number, Hagen – Poiseuille’s equation, Darcy – Weisbach equation, Friction
   factor, Water hammer concepts; Compressible flow – Bernoulli’s equation for Isothermal
   and Adiabatic conditions, Mach Number, Mach cone, stagnation properties; Steady
   uniform flow through open channels; Gradually varied flows – significance of Froude
   number, classification and computation of Flow profiles, Hydraulic jump, Surges;
   Boundary layer – Laminar and Turbulent Boundary layer, Boundary layer thickness,
   rough and smooth Boundaries, Boundary layer separation; Dimensional analysis and
   similarity laws; Hydraulic Turbines – classification, Velocity triangles, principles and
   design of reaction and impulse turbines; Centrifugal pumps – specific speed, work done
   and efficiency, characteristic curves.
5. Hydrology and Water Resources Engineering:
     Hydrological cycle; Rainfall – types and measurement, network design; Infiltration - -
     index; Runoff – process, factors and determination of runoff, dependable yield; Floods –
     flood hydrograph, computation of flood peak using rational formula, unit hydrograph
     method and Gumbel’s extreme value methods; Groundwater – types of aquifer and
     properties, Darcy’s law, specific yield, steady radial flow to wells in confined and
     unconfined aquifers; Irrigation – types and advantages, soil water plant relationship,
     consumptive use, duty, delta, base period, crops and their water requirements; Single
     and multipurpose projects; Dams – classification, forces and design of Gravity dam and
     Earth dam; Spillways – types, energy dissipation, stilling basin, Appurtenances; Canals –
     alignment, Kennedy’s and Lacey’s theories, lining of Canals; Weirs – components,
     design of vertical drop and sloping glacis weir; Seepage forces – Bligh’s Theory,
                                                                                            36


   Khosla’s theory; Canal falls – types and design principles; Cross drainage works –
   classification and design principles of aqueducts; Hydropower principles – classification
   and components of Hydroelectric power plants.
6. Environmental Engineering:
   Water supply – objectives, rate of demand, population forecasts; Analysis of water –
   classification, design of coagulation, sedimentation, filtration, disinfection and softening
   processes; Methods of layout of distribution pipes – Hardy cross method; Waste water
   engineering – systems of sewerage, hydraulic formulae and design of sewers, BOD,
   COD, self purification of natural streams, methods of sewage disposal; Treatment of
   sewage – principles and design of grit chamber, sedimentation tanks, trickling filters,
   activated sludge process, sludge digestion tanks, septic tanks; Municipal solid waste –
   characteristics, collection and transportation of solid wastes; Air Pollution – types and
   sources of pollutants, air quality standards; Noise pollution – Impacts and permissible
   limits, measurement and control of noise pollution.
7. Transportation Engineering:
   Highway Classification as per IRC; Highway alignment; Engineering Surveys; Geometric
   Design; Cross sectional elements of road; Gradient; Grade compensation; Traffic
   Surveys – speed, Volumes, origin and destination; Intersection – at grade and grade
   separated; Channelization; Rotary intersection; signal design – webstar method, traffic
   signs, pavement marking; Parking studies, accidental studies, pavement types, Factors
   considered for pavement design, flexible and rigid pavements design concepts.
   Railway Engineering: Permanent way, rails, sleepers, ballast; Creep, coning of wheel,
   rail fixtures and fastenings, super elevation, cant deficiency, curves, turnout; Points and
   crossings.
   Airport Engineering: Selection of site of Airport, runway orientation and design, wind rose
   diagram, basic run way length, correction to basic runway length.
8. Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering:
   Soil Mechanics: Physical properties of soils, Classification and identification,
   Permeability, Capillarity, Seepage, Compaction, Consolidation, Shear Strength, Mohr’s
   circle, Earth pressure, Slope stability;
   Foundation Engineering: Site investigations, stress distribution in soils, Bearing capacity,
   Settlement analysis, Types of Foundation, Pile foundations, Foundations on expansive
   soils; swelling and its preventions; Coffer dams, Caissons, Dewatering, Bracing for
   excavations, Newmark charts, machine foundations.
   Engineering Geology: Mineralogy, Structural Geology, Groundwater Exploration
   methods; Engineering Geology applications for Tunnels, Dams and Reservoirs;
   Geological hazards and preventive measures.
9. Estimation, Costing and Construction Management:
    Abstract estimate: Detailed estimate – centerline, long & short wall method, various
    items of Civil Engineering works as per Indian Standard, General Specifications - Earth
    Work, Brick / Stone Masonry in Cement Mortar, RCC, Plastering in Cement Mortar, Floor
    finishes, white wash, colour wash; Standard schedule of rates, lead and lift, preparation
    of lead statement; Computation of earth work – Mid-ordinate, Mean Sectional area,
    Trepezoidal method, Prismoidal Rule; Approximate estimate – Plinth area and cubic rate
    estimate.
10. Construction Management:
    Types of construction projects, Tendering and construction contracts, project planning
    and network analysis – PERT and CPM.
11. Surveying:
   Principle and classification of surveying, chain surveying; Compass surveying; Levelling
   and contouring; Theodolite surveying; curves; Introduction and Fundamental concepts of
   electronic measuring instruments – EDM, Total station, components of GPS and basics
   of GIS.


          7. ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING (DEGREE LEVEL)

1. Electric Circuits and Fields: Network graph, KCL, KVL, node and mesh analysis,
transient response of dc and ac networks; sinusoidal steady-state analysis, resonance,
basic filter concepts; ideal current and voltage sources, Thevenin's, Norton's, Superposition,
Maximum Power Transfer and Reciprocity theorems; two-port networks, three phase
circuits; Star, Delta connections, Measurement of power in 3-phase by two-wattmeter
method; Fourier, Laplace and Z transforms; Gauss Theorem, electric field and potential due
                                                                                                37


   to point, line, plane and spherical charge distributions; Ampere's and Biot-Savart's laws;
   inductance; dielectrics; capacitance.
   2. Electrical Machines: Single phase transformer - equivalent circuit, phasor diagram,
   tests, regulation and efficiency; three phase transformers - connections, parallel operation;
   auto-transformer; energy conversion principles; DC machines - types, windings, generator
   and motor characteristics, losses and efficiency, armature reaction and commutation,
   starting and speed control of motors, tests; three phase induction motors - principles, types,
   performance characteristics, starting and speed control; single phase induction motors;
   synchronous machines - performance, regulation and parallel operation of alternators, motor
   starting, characteristics and applications; servo motors.
   3. Power Systems: Basic power generation concepts, Economic aspects, Types of Tariffs;
   transmission line models and performance; cable performance, insulators, Sag and Tension;
   corona and radio interference; distribution systems; per-unit quantities; bus impedance and
   admittance matrices; load flow study; voltage control; power factor correction; economic
   operation; Load Frequency Control; symmetrical components; symmetrical & unsymmetrical
   fault analysis; principles of over-current, differential and distance protection; Generator
   protection, Transformer protection, Feeder protection, static relays; circuit breakers; Power
   system stability concepts, swing equation, power angle curve, solution of swing equation,
   equal area criterion.
   4. Control Systems: Principles of feedback; transfer function; block diagrams; steady-
   state errors; Routh and Nyquist techniques; Bode plots; root loci; lag, lead and lead-lag
   compensation; state space model; state transition matrix, controllability and observability.
   5. Electrical and Electronic Measurements: DC, AC Bridges, potentiometers; PMMC,
   moving iron, dynamometer and induction type instruments; measurement of voltage,
   current, power, energy and power factor; shunts, multipliers; instrument transformers; digital
   voltmeters, CRO; phase, time and frequency measurements using lissajous patterns; error
   analysis.
   6. Analog and Digital Electronics: Characteristics of p-n junction diode, Zener diode,
   BJT, FET; amplifiers - biasing, equivalent circuit and frequency response; oscillators and
   feedback amplifiers; operational amplifiers - characteristics and applications; simple active
   filters; VCOs and timers; Boolean Algebra, mizimizition of switching functions combinational
   and sequential logic circuits; schimitt trigger, multi vibrators Flip flops, counters and
   registers, sample and hold circuits; A/D and D/A converters; microprocessor basics.(8085 &
   8086), architecture, programming and interfacing, 8051 mc BASICS (Architectures.
   Addressing modes and instruction set).
   7. Power Electronics : Semiconductor power diodes, transistors, thyristors, triacs, GTOs,
   MOSFETs and IGBTs - static characteristics and principles of operation; triggering circuits
   commutation circuits; phase control rectifiers; bridge converters - fully controlled and half
   controlled; dual converters, principles of choppers, inverters, cyclo-converters and ac
   voltage controllers.
   8. Electric Drives: Four quadrant operation, Types of loads, Energy loss during starting
   and braking of dc and ac motors, Types of braking in dc & ac motors, Basis concepts of
   converter and chopper fed dc drives; V/f control, static rotor resistance control and slip
   power recovery scheme of 3-phase induction motor drives.
   9. Utilization: High frequency eddy current heating, dielectric heating, Arc furnace, electric
   arc welding & electric resistance welding, Illumination: Laws of illumination, MSCP, SV & MV
   lamps, Factory, street & flood lighting, Electric traction and track electrification, Speed-time
   curves, Tractive effort, Specific energy consumption, Mechanism of train movement,
   adhesive weight and coefficient of adhesion. DC motor series parallel control, energy
   saving.

         8. ELECTRONICS & COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING (DEGREE LEVEL)
Section-I
Engineering Mathematics
Linear Algebra: Vector space, basis, linear dependence and independence, matrix algebra,
eigen values and eigen vectors, rank, solution of linear equations – existence and uniqueness.
Calculus: Mean value theorems, theorems of integral calculus, evaluation of definite and
improper integrals, partial derivatives, maxima and minima, multiple integrals, line, surface and
volume integrals, Taylor series.
Differential Equations: First order equations (Linear and Nonlinear), higher order linear
differential equations with constant coefficients, method of variation of parameters, Cauchy's
                                                                                                  38


and Euler's equations, initial and boundary value problems, partial differential equations and
variable separable method.
Complex Variables: Analytic functions, Cauchy's integral formula: Cauchy’s integral theorem,
Taylor's and Laurent' Series, residue theorem.
Probability and Statistics: Probability, Joint and conditional probability, discrete and
continuous random variables, probability distribution and density functions. Exponential,
Poisson, normal and Binomial Distributions Functions. mean, mean square and standard
deviation.
Numerical Methods: Solutions of non-Linear equations, single and multi-step methods for
differential equations.
Section-II
Networks:
Network solution methods: Nodal and mesh analysis; Network theorems: superposition,
Thevenin and Norton’s, maximum power transfer; Wye‐Delta transformation; Steady state
sinusoidal analysis using phasors; Time-domain analysis of simple linear circuits; Solution of
network equations using Laplace transform; Frequency domain analysis of RLC circuits; Linear
2‐port network parameters: driving point and transfer functions; State equations for networks.
Electronic Devices: Energy bands in silicon, intrinsic and extrinsic silicon. Carrier transport in
silicon: diffusion current, drift current, mobility, and resistivity. Generation and recombination of
carriers. p-n junction diode, zener diode, tunnel diode, BJT, JFET, MOS capacitor, MOSFET,
LED, P- I -N and avalanche photo diode, Basics of LASERs.
Analog Circuits: Small Signal Equivalent circuits of diodes, BJTs, MOSFETs and analog
CMOS. Simple diode circuits, clipping, clamping, rectifier. Biasing and bias stability of transistor
and FET amplifiers.
Amplifiers: Single-and multi-stage, differential and operational, feedback, and power.
Frequency response of amplifiers. Simple op-amp circuits. Filters. Sinusoidal oscillators;
criterion for oscillation; single-transistor and op-amp configurations. Function generators and
wave-shaping circuits, 555 Timers. Power supplies.
Section-III
Digital circuits: Boolean algebra, minimization of Boolean functions; logic gates; digital IC
families (DTL, TTL, ECL, MOS, CMOS).
Combinatorial circuits: arithmetic circuits, code converters, multiplexers, decoders, PROMs
and PLAs.
Sequential circuits: latches and flip-flops, counters and shift-registers. Sample and hold
circuits, ADCs, DACs. Semiconductor memories: ROM, SRAM, DRAM.
Microprocessor (8085): architecture, programming, memory and I/O interfacing.
Signals and Systems: Definitions and properties of Laplace transform continuous-time and
discrete-time Fourier series, continuous-time and discrete-time Fourier Transform, and FFT,
z-transform. Sampling theorem.
Linear Time-Invariant (LTI) Systems: definitions and properties; causality, stability, impulse
response, convolution, poles and zeros, parallel and cascade structure, frequency response,
group delay, phase delay. Signal transmission through LTI systems.
Control Systems: Basic control system components; block diagrammatic description, reduction
of block diagrams. Open loop and closed loop (feedback) systems and stability analysis of these
systems. Signal flow graphs and their use in determining transfer functions of systems; transient
and steady state analysis of LTI control systems and frequency response.
Tools and techniques for LTI control system analysis: root loci, Routh-Hurwitz criterion,
Bode and Nyquist plots.
Section-IV
Communications: Random signals and noise: probability, random variables, probability density
and distribution functions, Moments, autocorrelation, power spectral density.
Analog communication systems: Amplitude and Angle modulation and demodulation
systems, spectral analysis of these operations, superheterodyne receivers; elements of
hardware realizations of analog communication systems; signal-to-noise ratio (SNR)
calculations for amplitude modulation (AM) and frequency modulation (FM) for low noise
conditions. Fundamentals of information theory and channel capacity theorem.
Digital communication systems: Pulse Code Modulation (PCM), Differential Pulse Code
Modulation (DPCM)
                                                                                                    39


Digital modulation schemes: amplitude, phase and frequency shift keying schemes (ASK,
PSK, FSK), QAM, matched filter receivers, bandwidth consideration and probability of error
calculations for these schemes. Basics of TDMA, FDMA and CDMA and GSM.
Electromagnetics: Maxwell's Equations: differential and integral forms and their interpretation,
boundary conditions, wave equation, poynting vector; plane waves and properties: reflection
and refraction, polarization, phase and group velocity, propagation through various media, skin
depth; Transmission Lines: equations, characteristic impedance, impedance matching,
impedance transformation, S-parameters, Smith chart: Waveguides: modes, boundary
conditions, cut-off frequencies, dispersion relations. Antennas: antenna types, radiation pattern,
gain and directivity, return loss.


      9. ELECTRONICS AND INSTRUMENTATION ENGINEERING (DEGREE LEVEL)

   1. Fundamentals: Coulomb’s law – Ohms law – Faradays laws of electromagnetic
      induction, Kirchhoff’s laws, Ampere’s law Resistance, Capacitance and Inductance,
      Graph, tree and links – Loop currents, node voltages two port networks, Z, Y and Hybrid
      parameters. Alternating currents, RMS value, formfactor, R.L.C. in AC Circuits power;
      and power factor, network theorems – Harmonic analysis.
   2. Analog Electronics: Characteristics and applications of diode, Zener diode, BJT and
      MOSFET; small-signal analysis of transistor circuits, feedback amplifiers. Characteristics
      of ideal and practical operational amplifiers; applications of op-amps: adder, subtractor,
      integrator, differentiator, difference amplifier, instrumentation amplifier, precision rectifier,
      active filters, oscillators, signal generators, voltage-controlled oscillators and phase-
      locked loop.555 timer and applications
   3. Digital Electronics: Combinational logic circuits, minimization of Boolean functions. IC
      families: TTL and CMOS. Arithmetic circuits, comparators, Schmitt trigger, multi-
      vibrators, sequential circuits, flipflops, shift registers, timers and counters; sample-and-
      hold circuit, multiplexer, analog-to-digital (successive approximation, integrating, flash
      and sigma-delta) and digital-to-analog converters (weighted R, R-2R ladder and current
      steering logic). Characteristics of ADC and DAC (resolution, quantization, significant bits,
      conversion/settling time); basics of number systems.
   4. Electrical and Electronic Measurements: Indicating instruments, D-Arsonval type
      Galvanometer, Vibration Galvanometer, Ballistic Galvanometer, Measurement of
      resistance, AC Potentiometers, Wheatstone Bridge, Kelvin’s bridge, AC Bridges,
      Maxwell’s, Heaviside and Schering bridges.
      Cathode Ray Oscilloscope and its applications, Electronic Voltmeters – Balanced bridge
      type, transistor Voltmeter, Chopper amplifier type Voltmeter, High Frequency
      measurements.
   5. Process Instrumentation: Fundamentals of Instrumentation, Static and dynamic
      characteristics of Measurement Systems. Error and uncertainty analysis. Statistical
      analysis of data and curve fitting. Transducers – Primary and Secondary –Classification
      of transducers, Basic transducer theory for the measurement of displacement,
      Temperature, Flow, Level measurement, Force and torque,Density and viscosity,
      Humidity- Nuclear instrumentation, Smart sensors, IR sensors, Motion detection
      sensors, accelerometer sensors, Gyroscope sensors.
   6. Control Systems and Process Control: Feedback principles. Signal flow
      graphs.Transient Response, steady-state-errors. Routh and Nyquist criteria. Bode plot,
      root loci. Time delay systems. Phase and gain margin. State space representation of
      systems. Mechanical, hydraulic and pneumatic system components. Synchro pair, servo
      and step motors. On-off, cascade, P, P-I, P-I-D, feed forward and adaptive control.
   7. Analytical, Optical and Biomedical Instrumentation: Mass spectrometry. UV, visible
      and IR spectrometry. X-ray and nuclear radiation measurements. Optical sources and
      detectors, LED, laser, Photo-diode, photo-resistor and their characteristics.
      Interferometers, Basics of fiber optics. Biomedical instruments, EEG, ECG and EMG.
      Clinical measurements. Ultrasonic transducers and Ultrasonography. Principles of
      Computer Assisted Tomography.
                                                                                             40


8. Embedded Systems: Microprocessor and microcontroller applications, memory and
   input-output interfacing; basics of data acquisition systems, basics of distributed control
   systems (DCS) and programmable logic controllers (PLC).

                  10. FOOT WEAR TECHNOLOGY (DEGREE LEVEL)

    Classification of Footwear, Leather goods, Garments based on construction,
    utilization, style-Upper Parts of Footwear, Bottom Parts of Footwear.
    Anatomy of Feet-Bones, Joints, Arches of the Foot –Changes during Growth-
    Functions of the Foot- Common Foot Troubles. – Reasons for foot problems –
    Deformed feet – Remedy.
    Foot Measurements- Foot drafting – Length and Girth Measurements-Different
    Footwear Sizing systems- Fittings and Multi Fittings-Conversion from one Sizing
    system to other system-Functions of the Feet.
    Lasts-Materials-classification of Lasts-Parts of the Last-Last Measurements –Last
    Terms-Last Functions-Comparison of Last and Feet-Different type of Hinges-Last
    Manufacturing- Grading.
    Footwear Designing -7 Basic Styles of Footwear- Mean form preparation-Footwear
    Styling-Design and Pattern Development of Sandals, Derby, Oxford, Slip on, Court
    shoe, Moccasin, Ankle Boot, Calf Boot, Knee boot, Grading – different grading systems
    – equipment used for grading- Footwear CAD software Packages, Different Functions
    available in Software.
    Clicking- Qualities required in a Clicker-Characteristics and Variation in Leather-
    Manufacturing/Quality Requirements-Methods of Clicking leather, Synthetics-Leather
    Measurement Systems.
    Pre fitting and Closing-Splitting-Identification Markings-Stitch markings-Press
    Punching-Perforating-Embossing-Skiving-Types of Skiving –Machines for Pre fitting
    and Closing Operations –Reinforcements-Top line and Edge Treatments-Stitching
    Machines-Lockstitch-Chain Stitch-Types of Seams-Decorative Stitching-Boxing and
    Barring Stitching-Eye letting- Threads –Needles-organizing of Closing.
    Footwear Materials-Different Type of Leathers -Soles-Insoles-Toe Puff- Stiffeners-
    Heels-Shanks-Adhesives-Threads-Needles- Linings-Synthetic Upper materials-Coated
    Fabrics-Poromerics-Knitted Fabrics-Woven, Non Woven Fabrics-Comparison of
    Leather and Synthetics- Leather Boards-Reinforcement Materials-Grinderies-Thermo
    Plastics, Comparison of Leather and non Leather Footwear .
    Bottoming operations-Conditioning of Upper before Lasting-Toe puff attaching-
    Counter stiffener attaching and Counter Moulding-Forepart lasting-Seat and Side
    Lasting-Heat Setting-Hot air blowing-Pounding –Wrinkle Chasing- Leather& Synthetic
    Upper Preparation for Sole Attaching , Leather& Synthetic Sole Preparation for Sole
    Attaching -Adhesive application- Sole attaching- heel attaching and Heel Nailing.
    Finishing Operations-Sole and Heel Finishing Operations-Heel Paring-Heel Scouring-
    Edge Paring- Edge Inking- Edge Setting- Heel Inking- Heel Burnishing- Sole Buffing –
    Sole Staining – Sole Finishing- Heel seat Wheeling- Other Sole and Heel Finishing
    Operations-Machines Used.
    Upper Finishing operations- upper Cleaning- Upper Conditioning- Upper Filling- Upper
    Dressing- Different Materials used- Different Machines Used- Finishing of Suede and
    Nubuck Leathers. Combined Finishing Machines-Making of Prefinished Leather Soles.
    Different Footwear Construction Methods-Cemented Construction- Veldtschoen
    Construction - Machine Welted Construction- Californian Slip Lasting Construction-
    String Lasting Constructions- Direct Vulcanizing Construction- Injection Moulding of
    PVC construction - Injection Moulding of PU Construction- Machines Used.

     Specialty Footwear –Leather Safety Shoes, Boots, Mining Safety shoes, Boots-Safety
    Rubber Canvas Boot for Miners-Steel Toecaps- Sports Footwear- Running Spikes,
    Track Shoe, Football boots, Tennis Shoes, Gymnastic Shoes, Orthopedic Footwear-
    Foot Problems-Materials used-Modifications required for different Foot Problems,
    Children Footwear Modifications , Casting the foot for Custom shoes.
     Testing – Sampling Position of Leather for Testing- Conditioning of Leather for Testing
    , Testing of Physical properties like tensile strength - % elongation at break stitch tear,
                                                                                                41


       tongue tear strength, Flexural endurance test, Lasto meter tests, Grain crack Index,
       Real Density tests, Testing of Shrinkage Temperature, Absorption of Water, Dynamic
       Water Proofness Tests, Dry and Wet Rub Fastness test, Air and water Vapour
       Permeability tests, Leather Finish Tests, Abrasion Tests, Testing of Sole Materials,
       Various Types of Adhesive Failures-Sole Adhesion Tests, Tests on Adhesive Bond-
       Bond Development-Testing of Threads, Laces, Zips, Buckles- above test methods and
       their importance.
        Quality Control- Quality points to be inspected after Clicking, Splitting, Skiving, Upper
       Making, Lasting, Sole attaching, Final Inspection of Footwear Manufacturing.
        Leather Goods and Garments- materials used- Pattern Making and Fabrication
       Procedure of Small Leather Goods, Ladies bags, Brief Cases , Zip Folio Cases, -
       Fabrication of Suitcase, Holdals, Attaache Cases, -Garment Leathers, Material Used in
       Garment Fabrications- Basic Sleeve Block, Collars.
        Hand Tools used in Footwear Manufacturing, Leather Goods and Leather Garments
       Manufacturing- Carving and Stamping Tools, Finishing Tools.
        Foot wear Machines – Operating Principle of Clicking Machines, Pre Fitting Machines,
       Closing Machines, Lasting Machines, Bottoming Machines, Finishing Machines.
        Costing- Costing of Foot wear, Leather Goods, Garments- Different Methods used for
       Material Consumption Calculations.
        Leather Making-Operations involved in making Leather, Classification of Leather
       Based on Raw Material, Type of Tanning, Type of Finish- Defects in Leather- Selection
       of Leather for Different Use.

                          11. GEOLOGY (POST GRADUATE LEVEL)

1. Geomorphology & Field Geology: Fundamental concepts of geomorphology, Geomorphic
processes, Weathering, soils, mass wasting, Streams and valleys, drainage patterns and their
significance, groundwater, glacial cycle, wind, lakes, seas, earthquakes, volcanoes and
mountains, application of geomorphology to various fields of earth sciences.
Field Geology: Toposheet, geological map, field work and sampling, compass, geological
mapping procedures. Surveying Principles and methods surveying, chain survey, prismatic
survey, plane table survey and theodolite survey. Dumpy’s level.
2. Crystallography, Mineralogy& Optical Mineralogy: External symmetry of crystals:
symmetry elements, classification of crystals into systems and classes, diffraction of crystals,
Braggs’ law. Physical properties of minerals, classification of minerals, structural and chemical
principles of crystals / minerals, physical and optical characters and paragenesis of mineral
groups- Olivine, pyroxene, amphibole, feldspars, quartz, chlorite, mica, spinel, epidote and
garnet groups, optical properties of common rock forming silicate minerals.
3. Structural geology and Geotectonics: Stress-strain relationship of elastic, plastic and
viscous materials. Principles of geological mapping, measurement of strike and dip, Structural
analysis of folds, cleavages, lineation’s, joints, and faults, superposed deformation, mechanism
of folding and faulting, Unconformities, structural behavior of igneous rocks, diapirs and salt
domes, fundamentals of petrofabric analysis.
Earth and solar system, planetary evolution of earth and its internal structure, Heterogeneity of
the earth’s crust, Major tectonic features of the oceanic and continental crust, Continental drift,
mid oceanic ridges, deep sea trenches, continental shield areas and mountain chains.
Paleomagnetism, seafloor spreading and plate tectonics, Island arcs, oceanic islands and
volcanic arcs, isostacy, orogeny, geosynclines, and seismic belts of the earth, seismicity and
plate movements, Geodynamics of the Indian plate.
4. Palaeontology & Stratigraphy: Micro-palaeontology, origin and evolution of life,
classification and uses of micro fossils. Plant fossils: Gondwana flora and their significance,
Invertebrate and vertebrate palaeontology, fossils and their morphology, distribution with
geological time period.
Principles of Stratigraphy, geological time scale, modern methods of stratigraphic correlation,
Precambrian Stratigraphy of India, Stratigraphy of the Palaeozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic
formations of India. Gondwana system and Gondwana land, origin of Himalaya and evolution of
Siwalik basin, Deccan traps, Quaternary Stratigraphy, rock record, paleoclimates and
paleogeography.
5. Igneous Petrology & Geochemistry: Origin of magmas, phase equilibrium in igneous
systems, Bowen's reaction principle, Magmatic evolution and differentiation, Structures and
                                                                                               42


textures of igneous rocks, Classification of igneous rocks, Magmatism and tectonics, Igneous
rock suites- Ultramafic rocks, Basic rocks, Intermediate rocks, Acidic rocks and Alkaline rocks.
Geochemistry,      Elements, Meteorites, Primary geochemical differentiation of earth,
Goldschmidt’s geochemical classification of elements, Periodic table, Magmatism as
geochemical process, Major elemental distribution in igneous rocks, Trace element distribution
in igneous rocks, Sedimentation as a geochemical process, Metamorphism as a geochemical
process, Isotope geochemistry, Atmospheric geochemistry.
6. Metamorphic Petrology & Thermodynamics: Metamorphism, factors and kinds of
metamorphism and metamorphic processes; Classification of metamorphic rocks and
nomenclature, Structures and textures, zones, grades, and facies of metamorphism, Phase
relations and phase diagrams for metamorphic mineral assemblages, processes and products
of Contact, Regional, thermal, dynamo-thermal metamorphisms, metasomatism, granitization,
typical Indian rocks.
Objectives of thermodynamics, inter-relationship between petrogenetic processes and
thermodynamics, Role of thermodynamics in geochemistry, Phase rule, ‘pressure-temperature-
depth relations’ among various metamorphic facies and ultra metamorphism, Paired
metamorphic belts, Metapelitic and metabasic minerals and mineral assemblages, First law of
thermodynamics, Second law of thermodynamics, P-T diagrams, geothermobarometry,
pressure(P)-temperature(T)-time(t) paths.


7. Sedimentology & Petroleum Geology: Sedimentary environments- fluvial, glacial, eolin
and lacustrine environments, transitional environments including deltaic, beach and tidal flats,
marine environments including shelf (clastic and non-clastic) and deep sea sedimentary
environment, Evolution of sedimentary basins, Tectonic setting of sedimentary basins.
Petroleum Geology, Constitution and Genesis of hydrocarbons, conversion of organic matter to
petroleum, variety of petroleum hydrocarbons and gas hydrates, Reservoir rocks, Migration and
accumulation of oil, structural traps, stratigraphic traps and combination traps, salt domes,
methods of Exploration and exploitation of petroleum, Geographic and stratigraphic distribution
of oil and gas, global distribution, petroliferous basins in India.
8. Ore Genesis, Mineral Deposits and Mineral economics: Modern concept of ore genesis,
principal ore mineral groups, plate tectonics and ore deposits, ore textures, Paragenetic
sequences and zoning in metallic ore deposits, ore microscopy,                    application of
geothermobarometry, fluid inclusions in ores, Role and application of stable isotopes in ore
genesis, Petrological ore associations with Indian examples, orthomagmatic ores of mafic-
ultramafic association, diamonds in kimberlites, REE in carbonatites, chromite in chromitites and
basic rocks, PGE in ultramafic and basic rocks, Chemical and clastic sedimentation, stratiform
and stratabound ore deposits (Mn, Fe, non-ferrous ores), placer concentrations, Ores related to
weathering and weathered surfaces, laterite, bauxite and manganese nodules.
Study of geology, nature of occurrence and the genesis of the following ore deposits with
special reference to India- Iron, Chromite, Manganese, Copper, gold, Lead and Zinc, Bauxite,
Magnesite, Barites, Mica, Asbestos, decorative stones, Mineral based Industries: Iron and
steel; Refractories: Ceramic, electrical and insulators, glass.
Stragetic, critical and essential minerals. Indias status in mineral production. Change in pattern
of mineral consumption, National Mineral Policy. Mineral concession rules, Marine mineral
resources and law of sea, Conservation and substitution of minerals.
9.    Environmental        Geology:      Concepts       and    principles,   Natural    hazards,
preventive/precautionary measures-floods, landsides, earthquakes, rivers and coastal erosion.
Impact assessment of anthropogenic activities such as urbanization, open-cast mining and
quarrying, river-valley projects, disposal of industrial radioactive waste, excess withdrawal of
groundwater, use of fertilizers, dumping of ores, mine waste and flyash, Organic and inorganic
contamination of groundwater and their remedial measures, soil degradation and remedial
method, Environmental protection-legislative measures in India, factors for groundwater
subsidence.
10. Engineering Geology Mechanical properties of rocks and soils, Geological investigations
for river-valley projects-dams and reservoirs, tunnels-types, methods and problems, Bridges-
types and foundation problems, shoreline engineering, landslides- classification, causes,
prevention and rehabilitation, Earthquake resistant structure, Problems of groundwater in
engineering projects and Geotechnical case studies of major projects in India.
11. Mineral Exploration and Fuels: Methods of surface and subsurface exploration,
prospecting for economic minerals and fuels-drilling, sampling, and assaying. Geophysical
techniques – gravity, electrical, magnetic, air borne, and seismic surveys, Instrumental
techniques of detection and measurement of radioactivity, Radioactive methods for prospecting
and assaying of mineral deposits. Geomorphological and remote sensing techniques,
                                                                                                 43


Geobotanical and geochemical methods. Bore hole logging and survey. Origin of coal,
Stratigraphy of coal measures, Fundamentals of coal petrology, peat, lignite, bituminous and
anthracite, Industrial application of coal, Indian coal deposits,
Origin, accumulation, migration and entrapment of natural hydrocarbons, characters of reservoir
rocks, structural, stratigraphic and mixed traps, geographical and geological distribution of
petroliferous basins of India. Gas hydrates and Coal Bed Methane occurrences, Mineralogy and
geochemistry of radioactive minerals, distribution of radioactive minerals in India, Radioactive
methods in petroleum exploration-well logging techniques, nuclear waste disposal-geological
constraints.
12. Hydrogeology: Origin of water, Hydrological cycle, water table, Rock properties affecting
groundwater, Types of aquifers, Porosity, permeability, specific yield and retention, hydraulic
conductivity, trasmitssivity, storage and storage coefficient. Water level fluctuation and causative
factors, methods of pumping tests and analyses, evaluation of aquifer parameters, artificial
recharge of groundwater, groundwater legislation, groundwater quality and groundwater
pollution, arsenic and fluoride problems, quality criteria for groundwater use, salt water intrusion
in coastal aquifers and remedial methods, surface geophysical methods-seismic, gravity,
geoelectrical and magnetic, subsurface geophysical methods-well logging for delineation of
aquifers and estimation of water quality, Watershed management.
13. Photo Geology, Remote Sensing, GIS and GPS: Elementary idea about photogeology:
electro-magnetic spectrum, types & geometry of aerial photographs; factors affecting aerial
photography; Fundamentals of remote sensing; remote sensing systems; remote sensing
sensors; signatures of rocks, minerals and soils. Application of remote sensing in geosciences
and geomorphological studies, Types of Indian and Foreign Remote Sensing Satellites, Digital
image processing; fundamental steps in image processing; elements of pattern recognition and
image classification, Geographic Information System (GIS), components of GIS; product
generation in GIS; tools for map analysis; integration of GIS with remote sensing. Geographic
positioning system (GPS), scope of GPS, advantages and uses of GPS in different fields.
14. Mining Geology: Alluvial, open- pit and underground mining methods; mine organization
and operation; mine hazards. Sampling techniques, drilling methods, estimation of ore reserves,
Cost of mining; future costs and profits; life of mine; present value of mine. Environmental
issues with mining.

             12. LETTER PRESS (PRINTING TECHNOLOGY) (DEGREE LEVEL)

Printing Processes, Paper & Ink Technology
All Printing Processes – Applications, Principles, Properties and Characteristics,
Paper – Raw materials used in Paper, Pulp Making, Materials used in Pulp Making,
Manufacturing of Paper, Recycling of Paper, Physical Characters of Paper & Board, Properties
of Paper, Instruments used to measure properties of paper and Boards, Paper testing Methods,
Problems faced with paper
Ink – Ingredients, Manufacturing of Ink, Properties of Ink, Drying Mechanism, Inks used in
Different Printing Processes and their Properties, Ink Problems
Offset Process, Gravure Process & their Surface Preparation
Offset Printing Process & their Surface Preparation – Classification of Offset Printing, Sheet fed
–Machine Structure and Types, Web Offset – Machine Structure and Types, Auxiliary
equipment, Surface Preparation – Types of Planographic Plates, Surface chemistry of Plates,
Plate making materials, Computer to plate technology, Problems and remedies.
Gravure Process –Applications of Gravure, Machine Structure and Types, Gravure Cells,
Construction of Gravure Cylinder, Etching and Engraving techniques, Gravure cylinder surface
finishing techniques, Slitting Operations, Materials used for Gravure Cylinder, Solvents used
Problems and remedies.
Flexography, Screen Printing & their Surface Preparation
Flexography –Aniline Printing, Flexography Machine Structure and Types, and Flexography
Plates – Classification, Materials used, Making of Plates, Problems and remedies.
Screen Printing – Frames, Screen - Treatment, Materials used, Squeegee, Stencil Making and
its Methods, Inks& Solvents used in Screen Printing, Drying, Printing Machinery Problems and
remedies.
Pre-Press Technology
Basic of Computers, Desk Top Publishing, Electronic Image, File Formats, Printers Design,
Colour Science, Colour Separation, Colour Measuring Instruments, Typography, Print Planning,
Colour Management
Print Finishing, Packaging & Converting
Print Finishing – Book Binding & its Classification, End Papers, Warehouse, Covering Materials,
Securing Materials, Reinforcing Materials, Adhesives, Different Finishing Operations, Different
Equipment’s used and Automation in Post-Press.
                                                                                              44


Packaging & Converting – Functions, Criteria, Types, Role of Designing in Packaging, Carton
Making, Manufacturing of Corrugated Boxes, Rigid Boxes, and other Materials used for
Packaging, Different Converting Processes, Bar Coding
Specialty Printing Technologies, Advertising & Quality Control
Specialty Printing Technologies – Non-Impact Printing Technologies and their Mechanism, E
Print – E Books, E Paper & Inks, Security Printing Processes, Types of Security Paper & Inks&
its Manufacturing, E-Publishing
Advertising – Different Medias, Types of Print Media, Advertisement creation and Promotion,
Advertising Ethics, Legal Issues, Copy rights, Elements of Marketing, Channel distribution
Quality Control – Objectives, Functions, Benefits, Quality control as Management tool, Quality
control in all areas of Printing, Print Quality checking devices, Standards and their tolerances,
Different ISO’s.

                     13. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (DEGREE LEVEL)

Section I: Applied Mechanics and Design
Engineering Mechanics: Free-body diagrams and equilibrium; Friction, rolling friction, belt –
pulley, screw jack, wedge, Trusses and Frames; Virtual work; Kinematics and Dynamics of
Particles and Rigid Bodies in Plane Motion; Impulse and Momentum (Linear and Angular)
and Energy Formulations; Impact.
Strength of Materials: Stress and Strain, Stress-Strain Relationship and Elastic Constants,
Poisson's Ratio; Mohr’s Circle For Plane Stress and Plane Strain; Thin Cylinders; Shear Force
and Bending Moment Diagrams; Bending And Shear Stresses; Deflection Of Beams;
Torsion Of Circular Shafts; Euler’s Theory Of Columns; Energy Methods; Thermal Stresses;
Testing Of Materials with Universal Testing Machine (UTM); Hardness And Impact Strength.
Theory of Machines: Displacement, Velocity and Acceleration Analysis of Plane
Mechanisms; Dynamic Analysis of Slider-Crank Mechanism; Gears and Gear Trains;
Flywheels, Gyroscope and Governors; Balancing of Reciprocating and Rotating Masses.
Vibrations: Free and Forced Vibration of Single Degree of Freedom Systems, Effect of
Damping; Vibration Isolation; Resonance; Critical Speeds of Shafts.
Machine Design: Design For Static and Dynamic Loading; Failure Theories; Fatigue Strength;
S-N Diagram; Design of Machine Elements such as Bolted, Riveted and Welded Joints, Shafts,
Spur Gears, Rolling and Sliding Contact Bearings, Springs, Brakes and Clutches.



Section II: Fluid Mechanics and Thermal Sciences
Fluid Mechanics: Fluid Properties; Fluid Statics, Manometry, Buoyancy, Forces on
Submerged Bodies, Stability of Floating Bodies; Fluid Acceleration; Differential Equations of
Continuity and Momentum; Bernoulli’s Equation; Viscous Flow of Incompressible Fluids,
Boundary Layer, Elementary Turbulent Flow, Flow Through Pipes, Head Losses in Pipes and
Bends.
Heat-Transfer: Modes of Heat Transfer; One Dimensional Heat Conduction, Resistance
Concept, Electrical Analogy, Fins; Unsteady Heat Conduction, Dimensionless Parameters in
Free and Forced Convective Heat Transfer, Various Correlations for Heat Transfer in Flow
Over Flat Plates and Through Pipes, Effect of Turbulence; Radiative Heat Transfer, Black And
Grey Surfaces, Shape Factors, Network Analysis, Heat Exchanger Performance, LMTD
and NTU Methods.
Thermodynamics: Thermodynamic systems and processes; properties of pure substances,
behavior of ideal and real gases; zeroth and first laws of thermodynamics, calculation of work
and heat in various processes; second law of thermodynamics; thermodynamics property,
availability and irreversibility; thermodynamic relations.
Power Engineering: Air compressors-Reciprocating and rotary compressors;Rankine, Brayton
Cycles with Regeneration, Inter cooling and Reheat.
I.C. Engines: Air-standard Otto & Diesel Cycles, Combustion in S.I. & C.I. Engines,
Performance & Testing of internal combustion engines.
Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning: Vapour Refrigeration Cycle, Heat Pumps, Gas
Refrigeration; Reverse Brayton Cycle; Moist Air: Psychrometric Chart, Basic Psychrometric
Processes.
Turbomachinery: Pelton Wheel, Francis and Kaplan Turbines, Impulse and Reaction
Principles, Velocity Diagrams.
Section III: Materials, Manufacturing and Industrial Engineering
Engineering Materials: Structure and Properties of Engineering Materials, Heat Treatment,
Stress-Strain Diagrams for Engineering Materials, Iron-carbon diagram.
Metal Casting: Design of Patterns, Moulds and Cores; Solidification and Cooling; Riser and
Gating Design.
                                                                                                  45


Metal Forming: Plastic Deformation and Yield Criteria; Fundamentals of Hot and Cold
Working Processes; Load Estimation for Bulk (Forging, Rolling, Extrusion, Drawing) and Sheet
(Shearing, Deep Drawing, Bending) Metal Forming Processes; Principles of Powder
Metallurgy.
Joining Processes: Principles (Gas, Arc, Resistance and Solid State) of Welding, Brazing,
Soldering; Adhesive Bonding.
Machining and Machine Tool Operations: Mechanics of Machining; Basic Machine Tools;
Single and Multi-Point Cutting Tools, Tool Geometry and Materials, Tool Life and Tool Wear;
Economics of Machining; Principles of Non-Traditional Machining Processes; Principles of
Work Holding Devices, Principals of Jigs and Fixtures.
Metrology and Inspection: Limits, Fits and Tolerances; Linear and Angular Measurements;
Comparators; Gauge; Interferometry; Form and Surface Finish Measurement; Alignment and
Testing Methods; Tolerance Analysis in Manufacturing and Assembly.
Computer Integrated Manufacturing: Basic concepts of CAD/CAM and their integration tools.
Production Planning and Control: Forecasting Models, Aggregate Production Planning,
Scheduling, Materials Requirement Planning.
Inventory Control: Deterministic Models; Safety Stock Inventory Control Systems.
Operations Research: Linear Programming, Simplex Method Transportation, Assignment,
Simple Queuing Models, PERT and CPM.

                   14. METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING (DEGREE LEVEL)

MINERAL PROCESSING AND PRINCIPLES OF EXTRACTIVE METALLURGY:
Ore Dressing, Sampling of ores, Communition: sizing, Concentration operations, Classification,
Jigging, Flotation; Basics of Pyrometallurgy, Hydrometallurgy and Electrometallurgy.
PHYSICAL METALLURGYAND HEAT TREATMENT:
Phase diagrams, Crystal structures, Solidification of metals , Iron carbon diagram,
Metallography, Heat treatment process, CCT diagrams, hardenability; Superalloys, shape
memory alloys – classification, heat treatment, properties and applications.
METALLURGICAL THERMODYANAMICS:
Thermodynamics: concepts of system, First Law of Thermodynamics, Kirchhoff’s equation;
Second Law and third law of Thermodynamics, Enthaphy and entropy, Boltzmann equation.
Energy Functions: Helmholtz and Gibbs energy change;. Application of the Clausius –
Clapeyron equation; Solutions: Composition, Concept of chemical potentia, partial molal
quantities, Gibb's - Duhem equation; Application of Ellingham diagrams to process metallurgy.
MECHANICAL METALLURGY:
Plastic Deformation in Metals and Alloys: concept of dislocation; slip and twinning, theories of
fracture, Griffith’s theory of brittle fracture, ductile fracture; Hardness tests; Tension Test,
stress-strain curves, DBTT curve ,Fatigue Test, Creep and Stress Rupture.
IRON & STEEL MAKING:
Principles of Iron making, Preparation of iron ores; Iron making through blast furnace, Physical
chemistry of Iron making, Control of C, Si, S, P in pig iron. Blast furnace Slags and its properties;
Blast furnace operations and difficulties, modern trends in blast furnace; steel making: Principles
and types of deoxidation, fundamentals of direct reduction, applications of DRI. Coal based DR
processes; Smelting Reduction Processes.
NON FERROUS EXTRACTIVE METALLURGY:
Copper: Matte smelting, converting; Fire refining; Electrolytic refining; Hydro- Metallurgical
copper extraction; Zinc production in retort process and Blast furnace; Lead: Blast furnace
smelting, Refining of lead bullion. Aluminium: Bayer process, Hall - Heroult process, Anode
effect; Magnesium: Production of a hydrous Magnesium chloride from seawater, Pidgeon and
Handspring processes; Titanium: Upgrading of ilmenite, chlorination of titanium, Kroll's process;
Uranium: Acid and alkali processes for digestion of uranium ores, Purification of crude salt,
Production of reactor grade UO2 and uranium.
MECHANICAL WORKING OF METALS:
Stress and Strain Relationship for Elastic Behavior: State of stress in two dimensions. Mohr’s
circle of stress in two dimensions, Elements of Theory of Plasticity; Fundamentals of Metal
Working: Classification of forming processes; forging: Classification, Forging defects, Rolling of
Metals and Extrusion.
                                                                                                46


POWDER METALLURGY OF METALS:
Importance of powder metallurgy, Characterization of Powders: Compaction, Sintering.
Mechanisms of solid state and liquid phase sintering; Testing and quality control, metallic and
ceramic P/M components; Applications of P/M products.
NON - METALLIC MATERIALS:
Definition and classification of nonmetallic materials, Ceramics: Introduction, classification,
structure, and applications of ceramics; Glasses: Classification and applications; Composites:
Manufacturing of Polymer matrix, metal matrix, and ceramic matrix composites.
MATERIAL PROCESSING (CASTING & WELDING):
Types of Foundries, Patterns and allowances, Moulding materials, Moulding Processes, Casting
Methods, Melting and Solidification, casting defects ; welding processes: Gas Welding, Arc
Welding processes, MMAW, GTAW, MIG, SAW and Resistance Welding, Metal Joining
Techniques, Weldability, Microstructure of welds.
FURNACE TECHNOLOGY & PYROMETRY:
Steady State Heat Transfer;Furnaces Characteristic features of vertical shaft furnaces,
reverberatory furnaces, Electric Arc and Induction furnaces. Pyrometry.
NON DESTRUCTIVE TESTING:
Visual methods; Penetrant flaw detection, Magnetic particle testing, Eddy current testing,
ultrasonic testing and Radiographic testing methods.
SUPER ALLOYS:
Classification and selection of superalloys, Relationship of properties to Microstructure in
superalloys; Melting of Superalloys; Principles and practices of vacuum Induction Melting and
Vacuum Arc melting Forming Methods.



                     15. PACKAGING TECHNOLOGY (DEGREE LEVEL)

Packaging basics
History and concept of packaging, Ancient Modern History of food packaging – packaging
evolution – super market- its Chronological developments , its need and role in society, Physical
and Physio-chemical characteristics of a product, functions of packaging, components, various
types of hazards, packaging laws and regulations ,corrosion prevention in packaging including
preventive coating methods.
Product compatibility –Permeability, definition of migration and types of migrations, laws on
diffusion, Ficks Law and Barriers law. Plasticizers, their types, functions and applications, Shelf
life, its controlling factors, testing procedures and devices.
Packaging materials
Properties , types , conversion processes, applications and quality control of primary
packaging materials such as paper, paper board, CFB, plastics and plastic films, elastomers
glass, metals, composite containers, laminations, wood and ancillary materials like adhesives,
cushioning, labels, labeling including marking & bar codes seals, closures & dispensing devices,
cylindrical and rectangular shipping packages, flexible shipping packages, pallets & unit loads.
Testing of packaging materials
Surface, physical, chemical, printability tests, compatibility and shelf life studies, testing
methods including identification of plastics, performance testing methods for evaluation of
transport packages, mechanical tests - drop test- vibration test - compression test - impact test -
rolling test, climate test: rain test - sound and dust tests - salt spray test - fungus resistance
tests.
Packaging of pharmaceuticals
Concept of drug, general aspects of drug package, basic terminology, FDA , ampoule, vial,
caplet , capsule, DMF, parenteral drug, USP, BP, CRP ,classification of pharmaceuticals ,
preparation of various pharmaceutical products, spoilage mechanisms, various hazards,
national and international regulators and pharmacopoeias, labels, leaflets, barcodes ,track and
trace and anti-counterfeit methods, materials used for pharmaceutical packaging- glass,
metals, plastics, plastic films, elastomers ,paper and paper board-their properties advantages
and various applications, fabrication and filling of various containers, container filling and
                                                                                                47


sterilization processes. Closure by adhesives, closure by separate devices, cans , bottles ,jars,
tubes, closure materials for pharmaceutical products, child resistant packaging, testing
procedure, various primary and secondary packages used for pharmaceuticals including
medical administrative devices, concept of QbD in package development.
Product packaging
Packaging of dairy, fresh, frozen and irradiated foods, confectionery, beverages, horticultural
crops, engineering goods, electronic goods, soaps and detergents, desired attributes of a soaps
& detergents, fertilizers, pesticides, chemicals, textiles and handicrafts, cosmetics and personal
care, aerosols, dangerous goods, major factors governing the selection of packaging materials
& packages, economics, transport, storage and legal obligations.
Packaging design
Objectives of package design, functions and conditions, safety factors, impact design criterion,
horizontal impact, vertical cushioning displacement, design cushioning theory, application of
force deformation curves, load curves, cushioning factors and reliability, economics of optimum
cushioning - Use of tension spring mounting systems, Full suspension package, non-linear
energy absorption load factors for vertical drops, design considerations, Use of rubber shear
mounts -physical concept of flexible mounting systems, natural frequency, - Materials,
specifications, plywood containers, typical ply wood container analysis, handling loads, stacking
loads - Bottle design, special requirement for bottle performance, manufacturing and filling,
specification. Environmental concerns - Glass container design - Container shape and
dimensions - Marketing and sales factors. Color, shape, labels, decoration, surface conditions.
Scope of packaging field, role of shipping container - clear & legible communication, legal
aspects of packaging graphics – designers approach to clear & legible communications.
Packaged product information – government & consumer issues.
Package printing
Type Production & Camera Work, Letter Press - Offset Lithographic Printing, Reprography,
Rotogravure and Screen Printing, Flexo Graphic, Digital Printing and Proofing Methods
Process color work – electronic color separation, packaging graphics marketing communication
roles –topography and copy, color, design forms, UPC symbolic and other penal copy. Evolution
- basics, printing inks - ink controls - presses - applications - advantages and disadvantages -
color laser-ink jet prints, proofing methods. Principles of electronic, computer and laser operated
devices used in printing and modern developments.
Packaging processes and machines
Various methods of filling and sealing of liquid, semi liquid and dry products – bottling, canning
& machineries involved, wrapping and bundeling, bags manufacture, filling and closing ,types of
bags ,BIB packages, system packaging, selection of appropriate system, salient features of
different types of systems ,lined carton system ,coated and laminated carton system ,stand up
pouches, aseptic filling and packaging systems. Vacuum packaging, gas packaging, strip, skin
and blister packaging machines-blow & injection moulding machines, metallization, thermo
forming, and form fill and seal machines
Packaging management and economics: Introduction, importance of economy in production
role of packaging in national economy. Packaging in general economy, total packaging cost,
transport cost, functional or protective packaging, effect of improvement in packaging design,
substitute of resources, recycling resources - Uses of different packaging materials, packaging
material cost. Relation of packaging cost and percentage lost in packaging materials -
Computation of cost for different packages like CFB aluminum cans, containers etc., Bottles,
Closures, Rigid Carton, Folding Carton etc.
Eco-friendly and export packaging
Importance of Eco-friendly package, Bio-Degradable Materials, Recycling of Packaging
materials, 3R concept-Reduce, Reuse, Recyclable packages. Environmental aspects of
packaging materials, Degradable materials for packages - Concept of solid waste. Disposal
options-Green Packaging and its principles- Benefits of Eco-friendly packaging - Concept and
idea of export packaging - Packaging Symbols -Considerations for export packaging - Cargo
transportation, Packaging containerized cargo - Shipping documents, shipping marks -
Inspection of export packaging and markings.
                                                                                                   48


                                   16. PHARMACY (DEGREE LEVEL)

  i. History of Pharmacy:     Code of ethics in Pharmacy, Posology; Principles of dispensing of
    mixtures, emulsions, powders and suppositories; Different types of Incompatibilities.
 ii. Pharmacy Act; Drugs and Cosmetics Act and Rules; Drugs price control order including
    amendments.
 iii. Methods of Sterilization and test for sterility; Preparation of vaccines, Sera and Anti-toxins;
    Manufacture of Penicillin and Streptomvcin.
 iv. Methods of classification of crude drugs; Adulteration and evaluation of crude drugs.
 v. Introduction to secondary metabolites: Definition, classification, properties and test for
    identification of Alkaloids, Glycosides, Flavonoids, Tannins, Volatile oil and Resins
 vi. Pharmacognosy of Senna, Digitalis, Ispaghula, Cinchona, Cinnamon, Rauwolfia, Podophyllum,
    Ergot , Cod liver oil and Gelatin.
vii. Principles, instrumentation and applications of Colorimetry, Spectrophotometry, fluorimetry, gas
    chromatography and High performance liquid chromatography.
viii. Principles and methods of different microbiological assay. Methods for standardization
    of antibiotics, vitamins and aminoacids.
    Principles and applications of bioassay; Types of bioassay; Bioassay of insulin,
    oxytocin, vasopressin, ACTH, d-tubocurarine, digitalis, histamine and 5-HT
 ix. Theory and applications of rheology (Newtonian and Non-Newtonian); Colloidal and interfacial
    phenomenon and their applications; Coarse dispersion (emulsions and suspensions)
 x. Physico-Chemical, formulation and biological factors effecting drug absorption.
    Drug discovery and clinical evaluation of new drugs- Drug discovery phase, preclinical
    evaluation phase, clinical trial phase, phases of clinical trials and pharmaco vigilance
 xi. Preformulation Studies: Introduction to preformulation, goals and objectives, study of
    physicochemical characteristics of drug substances. BCS classification of drugs & its
    significance; Application of preformulation; considerations in the development of solid,
    liquid oral and parenteral dosage forms and its impact on stability of dosage forms
    Formulation, technology and qualify control of tablets, capsules, liquid orals, aerosols, creams
    and ointments, injectables and sustained release medicaments.
xii. Drug stability: Reaction kinetics; Physical and chemical factors influencing the chemical
    degradation of pharmaceutical product, specific & general acid base catalysis,
    Stabilization of medicinal agents against common reactions, Accelerated stability
    testing, Photolytic degradation and its prevention
xiii. Radiopharmaceuticals: Radioactivity, Measurement of radioactivity, Properties of α, β, λ
    radiations, Half life, radioisotopes and study of radio isotopes-Sodium iodideI131,
    Storage conditions, precautions & pharmaceutical application of radioactive substances.
xiv. Structure activity relationship, synthesis, chemical nomenclature and uses of following classes
    of drugs – Hypnotics and Sedatives; Tranquilizers; Analgesics and Antipyretics; Anti-
    inflammatory drugs; Diuretics; Anti-hypertensives and Chemotherapeutic Agents.
xv. Pharmacology of Local anaesthetics; Diuretics; Hormones; Hypoglycemic agents; Anti-
    histaminics; Drugs acting on central nervous system; Adrenergic and Cholinergic drugs and
    Cardio-vascular agents.
xvi. Pharmacokinetic    and    Pharmacodynamic      drug   interactions   with   suitable    examples;
    Teratogenicity; Drug-induced diseases.
    Pathophysiology of Diabetes, epilepsy, rheumatoid arthritis, leprosy, cancer, asthama,
    atherosclerosis.
                                                                                                     49


                                17. PHYSICS (POST GRADUATE LEVEL)
  I. Mathematical Methods of Physics
     Dimensional analysis, vector algebra and vector calculus. Linear algebra, matrices, cayley-
     Hamilton Theorem. Eigen values and eigenvectors. Linear ordinary differential equations of first
     & second order, special functions ( Hermite, Bessel, Laguerre and Legendre functions). Fourier
     series, Fourier and Laplace transforms. Elements of complex analysis, analytic functions; Taylor
     & Laurent series: poles, residues and evaluation of integrals. Elementary probability theory,
     random variables, binomial, Poisson and normal distributions. Central limit theorem.
  II. Classical Mechanics
     Newton’s laws. Dynamical systems, Phase space dynamics, stability analysis. Central force
     motions. Two body collisions-scattering in laboratory and centre of mass frames. Rigid body
     dynamics-moment of inertia tensor. Non-inertial frames and pseudo forces. Variational principle.
     Generalized coordinates.Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formalisms and equations of motion.
     Conservation laws and cyclic coordinates. Periodic motion: small oscillations, normal modes.
     Special theory of relativity-Lorentz transformations, relativistic kinematics and mass-energy
     equivalence.
  III. Electromagnetic Theory
     Electrostatics: Gauss s law and its applications, Laplace and Poisson equations, boundary
     value problems. Magneto statics: Biot-savart law, Ampere’s theorem. Electromagnetic induction.
     Maxwell’s equations in free space and linear isotropic media; boundary conditions on the fields
     at interfaces. Scalar and vector potentials, gauge invariance. Electromagnetic waves in free
     space. Dielectrics and conductors. Reflection and refraction, polarization, Fresnel’s law,
     interference, coherence and diffraction. Dynamics of charged particles in static and uniform
     electromagnetic fields. Charges particles in inhomogeneous fields.
  IV. Quantum mechanics
     Wave-particle duality. Schrodinger equation (time-dependent and time-independent). Eigen
     value problems (particle in a box, harmonic oscillator, etc..).Tunnelling through a barrier. Wave
     function in coordinate and momentum representations. Commutators and Heisenberg
     uncertainty principle. Dirac notation for state vectors. Motion in a central potential: Orbital
     angular momentum, angular momentum algebra, spin, addition of angular momenta; Hydrogen
     atom. Stem-Gerlach experiment. Time independent perturbation theory and applications.
     Variational method. Time dependent perturbation theory and Fermi’s golden rule.Selactin rules.
     Identical practices. Pauli exclusion principle.spin-statistics connection.


  V. Thermodynamics and statistical Physics
     Laws of thermodynamics and their significance. Thermodynamic potentials, Maxwell relations,
     chemical potential, Phase equilibrium. Phase space. Micro and macro- states. Micro-canonical,
     canonical and grand-canonical ensembles and partition functions. Free energy and its
     connection with thermodynamic quantities. Classical and quantum statistics. Bose and Fermi
     gases. Principle of detailed balance. Black body radiation and Planck’s distribution law
 VI. Electronics
     Semiconductor devices (diodes, junctions, transistors, field effect devices, homo- and hetero
     junction devices), device structure, device characteristics, frequency dependence and
     applications. Opto-electronic devices (solar cells, photo detectors, LEDs). Rectifiers and power
     supplies. Feedback amplifiers and their frequency response. Oscillators, Multivibrators.
     Operational amplifiers and their applications, Digital techniques and applications (Logic circuits,
     registers, counters and Comparators). A/D and D/A converters. Microprocessors, micro
     controller basics. Fundamentals of AM communication, FM communication and Fibre optic
     communication and their techniques.
 VII. Atomic & Molecular Physics
     Quantum States of an electron in an atom. Electron spin. Spectrum of Helium and alkali atom.
     Relativistic corrections for energy levels of hydrogen atom, hyper fine structure and isotopic
     shift, width of spectrum lines, LS &JJ couplings. Zeeman, Paschen-Bach & Stark effects. Frank-
     condon principle. Electronic rotational, vibrational and Raman spectra of diatomic molecules.
     Selection rules. Lasers: spontaneous and stimulated emission, Einstein A & B coefficients.
     Optical pumping, Population inversion, rate equation. Modes of resonators and coherence
     length.


VIII. Condensed Matter Physics
                                                                                                     50


   Bravais lattice. Reciprocal lattice. Diffraction and the structure factor. Bonding of solids. Elastic
   properties, Phonons, lattice specific heat. Free electron theory and electronic specific heat.
   Response and Relaxation phenomena. Drude model of electrical and thermal conductivity. Hall
   Effect and thermoelectric power. Electron motion in a periodic potential, band theory of solids;
   metals, insulators and semiconductors. Super conductivity: Type-I and type-II super conductors.
   Josephson junctions. Superfluidity. Defects and dislocations. Ordered phases of matter:
   translational and orientation order, kinds of liquid crystalline order. Quasi crystals.
IX. Nuclear and Particle Physics
   Basics of radio activity. Basic nuclear properties; size, shape and charge distribution, spin and
   parity. Binding energy, Semi-empirical mass formula, liquid drop model. Nature of the nuclear
   force, form of nucleon-nucleon potential, charge –independence and charge symmetry of
   nuclear forces. Deuteron problem. Evidence of shell structure, single-particle shell model, its
   validity and limitations. Elementary ideas of alpha, beta and gamma decays and their selection
   rules. Fission and fusion. Nuclear reactions. Reaction mechanism, compound nuclei and direct
   reactions.

           18. TANNERY ENGINEERING (LEATHER TECHNOLOGY) (DEGREE LEVEL)

   A. Skin Proteins and Pre-tannages
   1. Chemical constituents of hides and skins – Fibrous and Non – fibrous proteins structure and
      Chemical Features. Reactive groups of Collagen and cross linking. Histological
      Characteristics of hides and skins.
   2. Preservation techniques – Principles involved – short term preservation – Defect in hides and
      skins.
   3. Chemistry and Principle of different pretanning processes like soaking, liming, deliming,
      bating and pickling. Different methods of pretanning processes as applied to light, heavy and
      industrial leathers.
   B. Theory of tannages
   1. Types of vegetable tanning materials – Classification, and chemistry of vegetable tanning.
      Mechanism of vegetable tanning. Synthetic tannins classification General methods of
      manufacture and application in leather processing. Chemistry and mechanism of oil and
      aldehyde tannages.
   2. The Chemistry of Chromium salts. Preparation of Chrome tanning salts. Mechanism of
      Chrome tanning.
   3. Chemistry and mechanism of Aluminium, Zircoium, titanium, silicate and Phosphate
      tannages.
   4. Chemistry and mechanism of combination tannages involving vegetables tanning materials,
      aldehydes and other mineral tanning agents.
   C. Leather auxiliaries and post tanning Operations
   1) Chemistry of neutralization and bleaching processes.
   2) Classification of dyes and blending of dyes. Chemistry of dyeing auxiliaries. Theory and
       mechanism of dyeing.
   3) Principles and methods of sulfation, sulfonation and sulfitation of oils. Preparation of
       synthetic flat liquors. Chemistry and mechanism of fatliquoring.
   4) Classification of retanning agents and their application.
   5) Chemistry and methods of preparation of aqueous pigment pastes, lacquers lacquer
       emulsion, synthetic and protein binders and impregnating agents. Patent leather finishes.
   D. Practice of Leather Manufacture – i
   1) Principles and practices involved in the manufacture of following types of leathers:- E.I.
       tanning of kips, buffcalf, cowcalf and Goat and Sheep skins. – Vegetable tanned sole
       leather, Chrome sole leather. Sole leather with improved properties. – Picking band leathers
       and pickers. – Digressing of E.I. Leathers into different finished leathers such as
       semichrome glazed kid, lining leathers, ------ leathers and diaphragm leathers. – Kattai and
       Bunwar leathers. – Specialty leathers for mountaineering shoes, high altitude shoes and
       pilot gloves.
   2) Role of Machinery in Leather Processing.
   A. Practice of Leather Manufacture – II
   1) Processes and principles involved in manufacture of following types of leather processing of
       Wetblue leathers – Full Chrome Upper leathers – Upholstry leather Lining leathers –
       Harness, belting and Saddlery leathers. – Football, Hockey ball, Cricket ball and other
       sports goods leathers – Chamois leather Fashion garment Leathers – Utility glove leathers.
                                                                                                51


2)   Principle methods and mechanism of drying of leathers.

B. Material Testing & Quality Control
1) Principles of analytical methods employed of water, chemical agents used in soaking,
    liming, deliming, bating, pickling. Analysis of liquors of beam house process, vegetable
    tanning extracts, spent tanliquors, chrome extracts – zirconium and aluminum tanning salts.
    Formaldehyde oils and fats – Fatiliquor and other auxiliaries. Estimation of Epsom salt and
    glucose.
2) Instrumental methods of analysis using potentiometry, spectrophotometry chromatography,
    ion exchange resins, calorimetry.
3) Analysis of vegetable and mineral tanned leathers- Determination of PCP at azo dyes, (Aryl
    amine based) in leather.
4) Principles and methods employed in physical testing of leathers.
5) Standards and quality control.
C. Leather Product Technology
1) Footwear: - (a) Anatomy of human feet, foot comfort, foot care and their relationship to
   footwear. Foot and last measurements Shoe sizing and fitting.
    (b) Materials used of footwear – Leather and non-leather materials for upper, -- and
    components.
    (c) Shoe design and pattern making
    (d) Grading clicking and closing – skiving – stitching – lasting, sole attachment – bending
    and edge treatments.
    (e) Construction of cemented and welted shoes machines used.
2) Leather goods and garments:- Classification – selection of materials – modern methods of
   construction and machinery – Hand tools and grinderies, zips, linings and fittings –
   standardization quality control and inventory control.

D. Organisation and Management of Leather manufacture
1. Livestock population of Telangana – availability of hides and skins – marketing of hides/skins
2. Location, lay-out and selection of machinery for tanneries manufacturing different types of
   leathers – estimates of investment, costing and feasibility.
3. Employment generation – training and training institutes-Telangana state Leather industry
   Promotion Corporation(TSLIPC),Leather Parks in Telangana- labour laws for tannery
   occupational health and safety.
4. Export performance of Finished Leather, Leather Products – marketing strategies and
   development – Features of overseas sales contract – Role of financial institution.
5. Type of tannery effluents- characteristic – Different methods of effluent disposal primary and
   secondary systems – standards and specifications of various type of disposal – soil waste
   disposal.
6. Total quality management (TQM) – Basic concepts – Principles of TQM – Barriers to TQM
   implementation TQM – Principles – Customer Classifications – Perception of Quality – TQM
   Tools – Quality Systems. Need for ISO 9000, Quality Auditing, ISO 14000 concept –
   Requirements and benefits.Industry4.0, Leather4.0 Industry4.0 to 5.0 & Industry 5.0.

                        19. TEXTILE TECHNOLOGY (DEGREE LEVEL)

I. TEXTILE FIBRES
Basic terms in textiles - classification of textile Fibres –General features natural fibresfibres –
Important varieties and stages in cultivation of natural fibres- Cotton, Wool and Silk. -Physical,
microscopic and chemical structure of natural fibres - manufacturing of semi synthetic fibresand
Synthetic fibres – raw materials and monomers used for producing synthetic polymers –
requirements of fibre forming polymers - methods and techniques of Polymerisation –
production processes of synthetic polymers viz. Polyster, Nylon6, Nylon6,6, Acrylic, Modacrylic
– production process of staple fibres and filament yarns from the polymers- methods of
texturization – identifying features, various properties and applications of textile
fibres.Manufacture, properties and applications of Rubber, Spandex, Aramid fibres,Glass fibres,
Carbon fibres, Metallic fibres, Vinyon, Flouro carbon and Micro fibres.
II. SPINNING
Methods of Ginning – different methods of yarn manufacture-influence of raw material
characteristics on spinning-Blow room - principles of opening, cleaning and mixing - different
machines used in blow room and their working principles – transport and control of material
flow- Carding - Objectives and principle of carding-various parts of carding machine and their
                                                                                                  52


functions – theory of carding action - card clothing –stop motions and auto levelling on a card-
maintenance of card –card setting points–causes and remedies for carding defects and
variations in sliver count – Draw frame – Objects, functions and principle of drafting - types of
drafting systems – types of top roller weighting systems- drafts – break draft, main draft and
total draft- Roller settings and draft distribution – Combing – preparatory processes for combing
- objects and principle of combing –advantages of combing - cyclic operations of combing –
factors influencing combing - noil % - Simplex - objects and basic operations on a simplex
machine -parts of Simplex machine and their functions – draft on simplex - principle of twist
insertion - winding mechanism - builder motion – doffing – process and product defects and
remedies – Ring frame- objects and functions of Ring frame – parts and functions of ring frame
– ring and traveler types and profiles – drafting arrangement and yarn guiding devices - principle
of twisting and twist levels – twist and twist multiplier- structure of ring package-cop building
process- ancillary equipment on ring frame-ring frame process defects and remedies – causes
of yarn breakages- yarn quality and waste control- Non conventional spinning methods –open
end spinning –principle of yarn formation, parts and functions of rotor sinning- principles of
friction spinning – false twist spinning – air jet spinning – characteristics of yarns produced by
different methods – Cone winding – parts and functions of the machine -winding parameters –
post spinning processes-machines used, basic principles of doubling, reeling, singeing and
conditioning - sewing thread. Classification of fancy yarns- methods of producing fancy yarns -
requirements and manufacture of sewing threads -Sewing thread packages and their
applications - essential properties of sewing threads.

III. WEAVING
Sequence of weaving preparatory processes – beam warping and sectional warping – pirn
winding-Sizing -Importance and objects of sizing – sizing ingredients and their functions – size
preparation- process parameters in size box - main parts and working of slasher sizing machine
–devices and mechanisms and modern controls on slasher sizing machine – drawing in and
denting in operations -basic principle of weaving - types of looms –mechanisms of a loom –
shedding, picking,beat up,let off and take up–auxiliary motions on a loom – power loom
accessories – loom faults - fabric defects –Automatic loom and its features, advantages,
essential attachments - weft feeler mechanisms -pirn changing mechanism - bobbin loader -
automatic loom winder - multiple box looms- working cycle of drop box motion-pattern chain
preparation for drop box motion

Dobby shedding -Limitations of tappet shedding-Comparison of dobby shedding with Tappet
shedding-Classification dobbies - Single lift and double lift dobby-Positive and Negative Dobby-
working of Double lift double jack Dobby -Right hand and Left hand dobby-Position of feelers-
Heald reversing motion–pegging plan for dobby – mechanisms of paper pattern cam dobby,
Rotary dobby, Climax cross border dobby and electronic dobby - Pick finding devices for
dobbies- dobby mountings.

Jacquard Shedding : types of shed formations-functional parts of Jacquard- Single lift Single
cylinder Jacquard-Double lift, Single cylinder Jacquard- Double lift, Double cylinder Jacquard-
parts of Jacquard harness system and their functions - Systems of Harness mounting- types of
Jacquard harness Ties - Sketching the design on point paper-importance of first hook of the
Jacquard- Casting out principle- steps to card cutting-preparation of pattern card on piano card
cutting machine-Jacquard card lacing- methods of increasing the figuring capacity of a
Jacquard-working principle of Electronic Jacquard.

Shuttle-less weaving: Yarn quality requirements for shuttle-less looms- Weft accumulator –
classification of shuttleless looms, their featuresand fields of application- types of selvedges–
characteristics of fabrics woven on different shuttle less looms –method of weft insertion on
Sulzer projectile loom and Rapier loom - types of rapier looms - Dewas system and Gabler
system -characteristics features,essential requirements of Air Jet loom- Maxbo Murata Air Jet
loom -Traverse aids for maintaining air flow- weft insertionon water jet loom -types and working
principlesmulti-phase weaving machines-Circular weaving -Terry loom –formation of pile by
Terry motion -loom particulars for weaving terry cloth -principle of producing cut pile fabrics -
characteristics of yarns used for terry fabrics-representation of basic terry pile structure -working
principle and applications of narrow loom-working principle and applications of Tri axial loom.

IV. WOVEN FABRIC DESIGN
Elements of woven fabric design - method of weave representation- procedure of drawing
design and constructing draft, denting plan and lifting plan- types of drafts - reed selection in
weaving- Classification of weaves -methods of ornamenting fabric.Plain weave and its
Derivatives -Design, draft and lifting plan of plain weave-characteristics of plain weave-
ornamenting plain weave - classification of plain cloths - Rib weave and Matt weave designs,
draft plan, lifting plan, characteristics and applications- particulars, characteristics and end uses
                                                                                                 53


of standard plainwoven fabrics, approximately square plain cloth, warp faced plain cloth, Weft
faced plain cloth, Voile fabrics - Twill Weaves - twill weaves- classification- design, draft and
lifting plan, characteristicsend use products of various classified twill weaves -angle of twill and
direction of twill.-factors that determine the prominence of twill weaves- designs of modified twill
weaves - twist and twill interaction on appearance of fabric- Compound Weaves-sateen and
satin weaves- design, characteristics, quality particulars and end use products of the weaves -
Honey comb -Brighton honey comb -Huck – a- back, Mock leno - crepe weaves -methods of
producing crepe surface-development of distorted thread effects- Classification, design,
Standard quality particulars, end uses, weaving arrangement and loom equipment needed for
Bedford cords, Welts and Piques -Principles of colour and weave effects- Extra Threaded,
Backed and Double Cloths-methods of increasing weight of fabric -principle and different
methods of producing, loom equipment needed for extra thread fabrics -different methods of
disposing surplus extra threads -Backed fabrics –steps in construction of backed fabrics -
Classification, principles of production and applications of double cloths.

V. CHEMICAL PROCESSING OF TEXTILES
Preparatory for wet processing: Requirements of water for chemical processing of textiles-
hard water and soft water - temporary hardness and Permanent hardness - Zeolite process of
removing water hardness - mechanism of wetting textile material-functions of soaps and
detergents in wet processing- anionic, cationic and nonionic surface active agents-sequence of
chemical preparatory treatments for the textiles made by different types of fibres- wet
processing of yarns, woven fabrics and knitted fabrics- commonly used chemicals in wet
processing of textiles- effect of PH in Chemical processing of textiles -sequestering agents -
different methods of singeing,desizing, scouring, bleaching and Mercerising – mercerisation of
woven and knitted fabric- evaluation of the chemical preparatory processes.

Dyeing:General characteristics and essential properties of dye stuffs-Classification of dyes-
applicability of various dyes on different fibres and characteristics of respective dyeing--natural
dyes and synthetic dyes – types of dyeing based on form of textiles-functional groups in textile
fibres responsible for dyeing- forces responsible for dye fixation - dye bath interactions - role of
additives in dyeing - general mechanism of dyeing- batch dyeing-continuous dyeing-general
terms usedin dyeing - fibre dyeing- yarn dyeing-fabric dyeing and product dyeing- colour
fastness ratings – methods and stages in application of water soluble dyes, water insoluble dyes
and ingrain dyes- dyeing machinery used for fibres , yarn , fabric and garment and their working
principles – methods of water extraction and drying the dyed textiles -preparation and dyeing of
bast fibres -wool, silk and semi synthetics viz., Viscose and Acetate textiles – preparation and
dyeing of synthetic textiles viz- polyster, Nylon, acrylic textiles with various dyes– mass
colouration of textiles – dyeing of blends - dyeing of woven garments, knitted garments - dyeing
of cotton garments, woollen garments, Polyester garments -fastness properties - dyeing faults.

Printing and finishing of textiles: essential ingredients used in print paste– different methods
of printing – different styles of printing –after treatments for printed goods -identifying features
of various methods of printing- finishing of textiles -classification of finishing treatments -
principles of drying – calendaring - permanent setting of wool - heat setting of synthetics –
Sanforising, anti-creasefinisih, wash and wear resistant finish, durable press ,water repellence
and water proofing , Softening and stiffening, Soil release and stain release finish,
Parchmentizing, Flame proofing-process sequence of garment finishing.
VI. APPAREL PRODUCTION
Sample development :Basic definitions related to Apparel manufacture- Pattern Making and
developments of Garment Sample-fabric properties to be considered for makinggarments -
Importance of Measurements - pattern making –paper pattern - stages for pattern making-
allowances for pattern making -Methods of pattern grading – manual and computer aided
methods of garment pattern making - garment pattern construction -types of samples and their
uses - proto sample development - sequence of garment sampling stages.

Marker making and spreading – methods of marker making –Marker efficiency- maker
planning –requirements, quality control in marker planning - requirements, procedures and
methods of fabric spreading- Automatic programmable spreading machine- quality factors and
common problems in spreading-fabric cutting - process sequence, requirements, types of
cutting machines - advantages and disadvantages of each- common defects in fabric cutting.

Sewing:Stitching machines required for garment industry - lock stitch formation - reasons for
thread break, needle break and skip stitch - safety rules for garment sewing machine operator-
types of garment stitches - types of stitches for knit fabrics - types of sewing machines - seam -
types of seams and their uses - Seam defects and seam quality defects - causes of seam
puckering.
                                                                                                     54



Garment accessories, Packing and Finishing: Classification of garment accessories -
garment closures - types and functions of interlining-requirements of fusing process - methods
of resin coating for fusible interlining - features, scope and working principle of continuous fusing
machine-, support materials – stays, lining, interfacing, shoulder pad- Pressing-principles,
methods and components of pressing - principle of pleating -information contained in labels -
types of labels -meaning of international care labelling codes - packing accessories and their
functions. Decorative garment accessories - Features, types and uses of Lace fabrics - types of
stays -classification and functions of different trimmings -types and manufacturing process of
Ribbon - Bias tape - process of direct –to- Garment printing -garment decoration techniques –
Appliques, Bias trimming, Ruffles , Smocking and Faggoting.

Apparel Merchandising: Flow chart of merchandising-activities-qualities and skills of
merchandiser -key players in the apparel industry -sourcing of Raw material -types of
merchandisers in apparel industry -various items required for production file -Buyer inspection -
tracking system for effective merchandising -basic terms of Fashion terminology -Fashion cycle
in Garment industry-functions of fashion Merchandiser -steps in marketing of fashion design -
qualities of successful fashion designer -variations in fashion adoption -consumer identification
with fashion cycles -tasks of Retail Merchandiser -objectives of Visual Merchandising-functions
of Visual Merchandiser- essential tools used for Visual Merchandising

VII. TEXTILE TESTING
Sampling methods for fibres, yarns and fabrics- Routine tests conducted in textile mills and the
method and instrument used for each –Influence of moisture and measurement of moisture –
standard regain of textile fibres- Conditioning of samples for testing- Measurement of fibre
parameters- different methods and instruments used for measuring fibre length, fineness,
maturity and fibre neps on conventional and advanced instruments –Measurement of yarn
count, yarn twist, yarn hairiness, yarn evenness, yarn faults - instruments used and principles
of testing- Stress – strain curves of textile fibres - different principles of tensile testing -
measurement of fibre strength, yarn strength and fabric strength – instruments used, principles
of testing and methods - measurement of fabric constructional particulars, dimensions and
properties- Testing of fabric handle, stiffness Drape -fabric comfort properties - air permeability
water repellence, thermal insulation, thermal conductivity and flammability of the fabric –testing
of serviceability properties - Identifying the type of fibre in the fabric -evaluation of soil and stain
removal-evaluation of fabric stretch properties-methods for testing knitted fabrics- testing of
courses and wales per unit length-spirality intended for form-fitting apparel-causes of shrinkage
and dimensional changes in garment-principle of evaluating dimensional changes in the fabric -
durable press evaluation of the fabrics and apparels-testing of dyed fabric properties - fastness
to light, washing, dry cleaning, hot pressing, chlorination, crocking, perspiration, testing for class
of dye in the dyed fabric-factors influencing strength properties of apparel -factors influencing
seam strength in woven fabrics and knitted fabrics-causes of yarn slippage in woven fabrics-
Bow and Skewness -Yarn severance and Seam Puckering-reasons for seam puckering-causes
of snagging-effect of physical properties on puckering

VIII. STATISTICAL TOOLS AND QUALITY CONTROL
Causes of variation in textiles- calculation of standard deviation, variance, coefficient of
variation - control limits and specification limits- control charts-types of control charts-
Control charts for averages, range, fraction defective, number of defects -control line,
Upper control limit and lower control limit for each chart- chance causes and assignable
causes-Process capability- Six sigma - characteristics of normal distribution curve-problems
on significance testing for mean and dispersion–correlation - Methods of studying
correlation- uses of correlation- calculation of Karl Pearson coefficient of correlation-
Concept and importance of quality- definitions of basic terms related to quality-elements of
quality management -divisions of cost of quality- quality costs in relation to the garment
manufacturing – benefits and importance of standards-sources of standards for textiles-
Quality Management Systems - ISO 9000 Standards- TQM- quality improvement program
by Kaizen- 5 S quality system- quality circles- -Seven tools of quality Improvement-Flow
chart, Cause and effect diagram, Pareto diagram, Check sheets, Histogram, Scatter
diagram and Run charts.
IX. TEXTILE MATHEMATICS
Micronaire - yarn diameter- problems on direct and Indirect yarn count systems - conversion
factors-count of folded yarn – Calculations in Cotton spinning - bale density -blows / inch of a
beater - Waste % and cleaning efficiency of a beater and blow room –cleaning efficiency of a
card -surface speed - drafts in various departments - creel table draft, break draft, main draft,
web draft and total draft - Draft constant and change wheel –hank of delivery sliver – linear
density of lap –production and production efficiencies of various machines in spinning–
                                                                                                     55


Calculation of twist -twist in roving and yarn - relation between twist and count - front roller
delivery - yarn realization -calculations in cone winding - time required, number of drums
required to wind given weight of yarn -calculation of Yarn tension, clearer setting -clearing
efficiency- Spin plan - Average count of warp -Weight of yarn on beam- beam count-Minimum
mass of yarn for supply package-Time to complete a beam -Warping machine running
efficiency-Proportion of warper’s beam to slasher beam - width of section and number of ends in
the section -Number of sections to be made -Size pick up & size add on-Weight of size required
-Count of sized warp- -running efficiency of warping machine and sizing machine -Number of
looms that could be fed by a slasher sizing machine – Take up and regain of warp and weft -
Relation between reed count and reed width-Relation between Loom pick and picks per inch in
the cloth -Average speed, average reed space, average picks-production of a loom -time
required to weave given length of warp -length of warp required per loom per hour -warp and
weft crimp in woven fabric- Weight of warp and weft required to produce given piece of fabric -
cover factor-No of machines required for a target production - Production calculations in
Garment manufacture- production target, operator efficiency, line efficiency, machine efficiency,
machine productivity, Labour productivity, standard time, Labour cost per unit, fabric
consumption for producing a garment and thread consumption

X. KNITTING & NONWOVEN TECHNOLOGY
Basic terms of Knitting - properties of knitted structures - weft knitting and warp knitting-
functional elements used on a (weft) knitting machine -loop forming sequence of knitting needle
- Basic weft knit structures–Representation of weft knit structures- characteristics of single
jersey structures -Warp Knitting- principle of producing basic warp knit fabric -functional
elements of Tricot and Rachel machines - knitting cycles of tricot and Raschel machine -
differences between warp knits and woven fabrics -Apparel and non-apparel uses of knitted
fabrics- Process stages in nonwoven manufacture- classification of nonwoven fabrics - methods
of web formation - methods of bonding the web - principle of producing needle punched
nonwovens- techniques of adhesive bonding , principle of hot calendar thermal bonding-
Extrusion nonwovens- Spun bonding and spun laced techniques -Melt blown techniques -
structure and general characteristics of nonwovens- applications and Scope of non-woven
fabrics- Comparison between Non-Woven & Woven Fabrics

XI. TECHNICAL TEXTILES
Classification of technical Textiles - scope of textile fibres for use in technical applications -
yarn manufacturing technologies of producing technical yarns - fabric structures (woven,
knitted and nonwoven) used for technical applications -various finishes and coatings for
fabrics for Technical applications -scope and utility of various technical textiles-applications
of nonwovens in Technical Textiles- Classification of Medical textiles- product, fibre type and
manufacturing system of implantable medical textile and Non-implantable medical textiles.
Health care Hygiene products -fibre type and construction of suture -extra corporeal
devices- requirements of fibres for medical textiles - scope and advantages of using textiles
for filtration -theory, principles and process of dust collection in aerosol filtration - types
fabric cleaning mechanisms- considerations in selection and design of fabric filters-
Classification of geo synthetics - functions of geo textiles and their application fields -
structure and uses of different types of geo synthetics - properties of Geo Textiles -
advantages of Geo textiles made by Jute.Inherently flame-retardant fibres - the process of
flame retardation of conventional textile fibres -water proof breathable fabrics - application of
textiles for survival - physical requirements of military textiles-environmental requirements of
military textiles for heat,flame and hazards- ballistic textile - typical military textiles-
Requirements of textiles for transportation - textiles used in road transportation - application
of textiles in Architecture and Construction - application of textiles in Agriculture, Sports and
Recreation - requirements of sports surfaces structure and manufacturing of tyre cards -
classification of textile composite reinforcement - the application of textile structural
composites
                                                                                                 56


                                       ANNEXURE – IV

                             INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES:

A)   GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES

1) Candidates are directed to follow the Commission’s Website (https://www.tspsc.gov.in)
   regularly to know the latest developments regarding the Recruitment, dates of
   Examination, calling of candidates for verification of Certificates/ Medical Boards, Results
   etc.
2) The Hall Ticket must be presented for entry into the examination hall alongwith one
   original valid Photo identification card issued by Government i.e., Passport, Pan Card,
   Voter ID, Aadhaar Card, Government Employee ID or Driving License etc., without fail.
3) Candidates are strictly not allowed inside the Examination centre after closing the gate.
 4) EDIT OPTION TO THE CANDIDATES: The applicants should follow the TSPSC website
    regularly to utilize the edit option to rectify the mistakes viz., Biodata particulars/Data
    corrections / Omissions etc., in the application, if the facility is given by the Commission. If
    the edit option facility is not utilized by the candidates, the TSPSC is not responsible and
    the data already available is treated as final. After the due date, Data corrections through
    Online/Paper representations or Corrections on the Nominal Rolls in the examination hall
    will not be accepted under any circumstances. No correspondence will be entertained in
    this matter.
 5) There will be a common examination for Paper-I i.e., General Studies as decided by the
    Commission, whenever required.
6) The candidates must note that his/her admission to the examination is strictly provisional.
   The mere fact that an Admission to the examination does not imply that his/her
   candidature has been finally cleared by the Commission or that the entries made by the
   candidate in his/her application have been accepted by the Commission as true and
   correct. The candidates have to be found suitable after verification of original certificates;
   and other eligibility criteria. The Applicants have to upload his/her scanned recent colour
   passport photo and signature to the Application Form. Failure to produce the same
   photograph, if required, at the time of verification, may lead to disqualification.
7) The candidates are not allowed to bring any Electronic devices such as Smart / Mobile
   phones, Calculators, tablets, iPad, Bluetooth, pagers, watches to examination centre.
   Loaning and interchanging of articles among the candidates is not permitted in the
   examination hall and any form of malpractice will not be permitted in the exam hall.
8) The candidates are expected to behave in an orderly and disciplined manner while writing
   the examination. If any candidate takes away Answer Sheet of OMR based examination,
   the candidature will be rejected. In case of impersonation/ disorder/ rowdy behavior during
   Examination, cases shall be booked in the Police Station concerned, apart from
   disqualifying his / her candidature.
9) Candidates trying to use unfair means shall be disqualified from the selection. No
   correspondence whatsoever will be entertained from the candidates.
10) The Commission is also empowered to invoke the penal provisions of the T.S. Public
    Examinations (Prevention of Malpractices and Unfair means) Act, 1997 (Act No.25/1997)
    for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto and as per the Rules of Procedure of
    TSPSC published in Telangana Gazette No: 60 dated 28/12/2015 in respect of this
    Notification.
 11) (i) The candidates who are totally blind are allowed to write the examination with the help
          of scribe provided by TSPSC and 20 minutes extra time is permitted to them per hour.
     (ii) Scribe will be provided by TSPSC to those candidates who do not have both the
          upper limbs for Orthopedically Handicapped. However, no extra time will be granted to
          them.
     (iii) Scribe will be provided to the above category of candidates who applied for scribe
           facility in the online application only.
     (iv) An extra time of 20 minutes per hour is also permitted for the candidates with
          locomotor disability and CEREBRAL PALSY where dominant (writing) extremity is
          affected for the extent slowing the performance of function (Minimum of 40%
          impairment). Scribe is allowed to such candidates also.
     (v) The scribe should be from an academic discipline other than that of the candidate and
                                                                                             57


       the academic qualification of the scribe should be one grade lower than the stipulated
       eligibility criteria.
   (vi) The candidate as well as the scribe will have to give a suitable undertaking confirming
        the rules applicable.

B) INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES REGARDING OMR BASED EXAMINATION

1) The candidates have to report to the examination venue at least 30 minutes before the
   commencement of examination, to record their Photo Image/thumb impression on
   Biometric system.
2) The candidate should satisfy the Invigilator of his identity with reference to the Signature
   and Photograph available on the Nominal Roll and Hall Ticket.
3) The candidates should go through the instructions given on the cover page of test booklet
   and OMR Answer Sheet which will be provided to him/her in the examination hall and
   carefully write his/her Hall Ticket Number, Subject / Paper Code, Question Booklet
   Number, Name of the Examination Centre etc., on the OMR Answer Sheet. The
   candidates have to USE BALL POINT PEN (BLUE/BLACK) ONLY to fill up relevant
   columns on the Answer Sheet including MARKING OF THE ANSWERS. Bubbling by
   Pencil / Ink Pen /Gel Pen is not permitted in the examination.
4) The candidate must write all the relevant columns in the Answer sheet and also encode
   (bubble) correctly such as Hall Ticket Number, Question Booklet Series and Paper Code
   on the OMR Answer Sheet carefully and to Sign in the space provided for on Side-1 of
   the Answer Sheet and ensure the Signature of the Invigilator, etc., on it, failing which the
   Answer sheet will be rejected. Use of whitener / eraser / chalk-powder etc., is strictly
   prohibited on the OMR Answer sheet/ Question Paper.
5) Candidate should encode the Hall-Ticket Number and Paper Code first carefully on OMR
   Answer Sheet. After receiving the Question Paper only, candidate should verify and
   encode Question Booklet Number on the OMR Answer Sheet.
6) OMR Answer sheets cannot be replaced under any circumstances in case of wrong
   bubbling.
7) If there is any defect in the Test Booklet or OMR Answer Sheet, please ask the invigilator
   for replacement immediately.
8) The OMR Answer sheets are to be scanned (valued) with Optical Mark Reader. The
   Digital copy of OMR Answer Sheets will be made available on the Commission’s website
   immediately after completion of the image scanning.
9) No candidate should leave the examination hall till expiry of fulltime. After writing the
   examination the candidate has to handover the OMR Answer sheet to the invigilator in
   the examination hall.     If any candidate takes away the OMR Answer sheet, his/her
   candidature will be rejected.
10) The Commission would be analyzing the responses of a candidate with other appeared
    candidates to detect patterns of similarity. If it is suspected that the responses have been
    shared and the scores obtained are not genuine/ valid, the Commission will invalidate the
    OMR Answer Sheet and cancel his/ her candidature.

C) INSTRUCTIONS FOR CANDIDATES REGARDING CBRT EXAMINATION
   1) Candidates shall report at the venue one hour (60 minutes) before the
      Commencement of Examination as the candidates have to undergo certain
      procedural formalities required for CBRT examination.
   2) Date and Time of the Examination are mentioned in the Hall-Ticket
   3) The examination link with the login screen will already be available on your system.
      Please inform the invigilator if this is not the case.
   4) 10 minutes prior to the exam, you’ll be prompted to login. Please type the Login ID (H
      T No.) and the Password (Password for Candidate will be given on exam day) to
      proceed further.
   5) Invigilator will announce the password at 09.50 AM and 02.20 PM in cases if
      Examination is at 10:00 A.M and 2:30 P.M respectively.
   6) Copying or noting down questions and/or options is not allowed. Severe action will
      be takenif any candidate is found noting down the questions and/or options.
   7) After logging in, the following will be displayed on your Computer screen:
         Profile Information - Check the details & click on “I Confirm” or “I Deny”.
         Detailed exam instructions - Please read and understand thoroughly.
         Please click on the “I am ready to Begin” button.
   8) After reading the instructions, you have to use the mouse to answer the multiple-
                                                                                            58


    choice typequestions having FOUR alternative answer choices.
9) To answer any numerical answer type question, you need to use the virtual numeric
    key pad and the mouse.
10) On the online exam question screen, the timer will display the balance time remaining
    for thecompletion of exam.
11) The question numbers are color coded and of different shapes based on the
    process of recording your response:
        White (Square) - For un-attempted questions.
        Red (Inverted Pentagon) - For unanswered questions.
        Green (Pentagon) - For attempted questions.
        Violet (Circle) - Question marked by candidate for review to be answered later.
        Violet (Circle with a Tick mark) - Question answered but marked by candidate for
    review.
12) After answering a question, click the SAVE & NEXT button to save your
    response and move onto the next question.
13) Click on Mark for Review & NEXT to mark your question for review, and then go
    to the nextquestion.
14) To clear any answer chosen for a particular question, please click on the
    CLEARRESPONSE button.
15) A summary of each section, (i.e. questions answered, not answered, marked for
    review) is available for each section. You have to place the cursor over the
    section name for this summary.
16) In case you wish to view a larger font size, please inform the Invigilator. On the
    Invigilator's confirmation, click on the font size you wish to select. The font size
    will be visible on the top.
17) You may view INSTRUCTIONS at any point of time during exam, by clicking on
    the INSTRUCTIONS button on your screen.
18) The SUBMIT button will be activated after 150 Minutes. It will continue for an
    additional 50 Minutes for PH candidates eligible for compensatory time. Please
    keep checking the timer on your screen.
19) In case of automatic or emergency log out, all your attempted questions and their
    responses will be saved. And also, the exam will start from the time where it had
    stopped.
20) You will be provided a blank sheet for rough work. Do write your Login ID and
    Password on it. Please ensure that you return it to the invigilator at the end of the
    exam after tearing ONLYthe password from it.
21) Please don’t touch the key board as your exam ID will get locked. If your ID gets
    locked, please inform your invigilator who will help in unlocking your ID and then
    you can continue with the exam.
22) Please inform the invigilator in case of any technical issues.
23) Please do not talk to or disturb other candidates.
24) In case you are carrying articles other than the admit card, photo identity proof
    and pen, please leave them outside the exam room.
25) These are model instructions and candidates have to follow latest instructions
    issued along with Hall tickets
                                         T
                                                                                               59


                                         ANNEXURE-V

                    LIST OF SCHEDULED CASTES AND SCHEDULED TRIBES

(G.O. MS. NO. 5 Scheduled Castes Development (POA.A2) Dept., Dt. 08/08/2015 read with G.O. Ms. No.
   11, Scheduled Castes Development (POA.A2) Dept., Dt. 17/09/2014 and G.O. Ms. No. 2 Scheduled
                        Castes Development (POA.A2) Dept., Dt. 22.01.2015)

                                 LIST OF SCHEDULED CASTES

   1. Adi Andhra
   2. Adi Dravida
   3. Anamuk
   4. Aray Mala
   5. Arundhatiya
   6. Arwa Mala
   7. Bariki
   8. Bavuri
   9. Beda (Budga) Jangam
   10. Bindla
   11. Byagara, Byagari
   12. Chachati
   13. Chalavadi
   14. Chamar, Mochi, Muchi, Chamar-Ravidas, Chamar- Rohidas
   15. Chambhar
   16. Chandala
   17. Dakkal, Dokkalwar
   18. Dandasi
   19. Dhor
   20. Dom, Dombara, Paidi, Pano
   21. Ellamalawar, Yellammalawandlu
   22. Ghasi, Haddi, Relli, Chanchandi
   23. Godari
   24. Gosangi
   25. Holeya
   26. Holeya Dasari
   27. Jaggali
   28. Jambuvulu
   29. Kolupulvandlu, Pambada, Pambanda, Pambala
   30. Madasi Kuruva, Madari Kuruva
   31. Madiga
   32. Madiga Dasu, Mashteen
   33. Mahar
   34. Mala, Mala Ayawaru
   35. Mala Dasari
   36. Mala Dasu
   37. Mala Hannai
   38. Malajangam
   39. Mala Masti
   40. Mala Sale, Nethani
   41. Mala Sanyasi
   42. Mang
   43. Mang Garodi
   44. Manne
   45. Mashti
   46. Matangi
   47. Mehtar
   48. Mitha Ayyalvar
   49. Mundala
   50. Paky, Moti, Thoti
   51. Pamidi
   52. Panchama, Pariah
   53. Relli
   54. Samagara
   55. Samban
   56. Sapru
   57. Sindhollu, Chindollu
   58. Yatala
   59. Valluvan
                                                                                       60


                              LIST OF SCHEDULED TRIBES

   1.  Andh, Sadhu Andh
   2.  Bagata
   3.  Bhil
   4.  Chenchu
   5.  Gadabas, Bodo Gadaba, Gutob Gadaba, Kallayi Gadaba, Parangi Gadaba, Kathera
       Gadaba, Kapu Gadaba
   6. Gond, Naikpod, Rajgond, Koitur
   7. Goudu (in the Agency tracts)
   8. Hill Reddis
   9. Jatapus
   10. Kammara
   11. Kattunayakan
   12. Kolam, Kolawar
   13. Konda Dhoras, Kubi
   14. Konda Kapus
   15. Kondareddis
   16. Kondhs, Kodi, Kodhu, Desaya Kondhs, Dongria Kondhs, Kuttiya Kondhs, Tikiria Kondhs,
       Yenity Kondhs, Kuvinga
   17. Kotia, Bentho Oriya, Bartika, Dulia, Holya, Sanrona, Sidhopaiko
   18. Koya, Doli Koya, Gutta Koya, Kammara Koya, Musara Koya, Oddi Koya, Pattidi Koya,
       Rajah, Rasha Koya, Lingadhari Koya (ordinary), Kottu Koya, Bhine Koya, Rajkoya
   19. Kulia
   20. Manna Dhora
   21. Mukha Dhora, Nooka Dhora
   22. Nayaks (in the Agency tracts)
   23. Pardhan
   24. Porja, Parangiperja
   25. Reddi Dhoras
   26. Rona, Rena
   27. Savaras, Kapu Savaras, Maliya Savaras, Khutto Savaras
   28. Sugalis, Lambadis, Banjara
   29. Thoti (in Adilabad, Hyderabad, Karimnagar, Khammam, Mahbubnagar, Medak,
       Nalgonda, Nizamabad and Warangal districts)
   30. Yenadis, Chella Yenadi, Kappala Yenadi, Manchi Yenadi, Reddi Yenadi
   31. Yerukulas, Koracha, Dabba Yerukula, Kunchapuri Yerukula, Uppu Yerukula
   32. Nakkala, Kurvikaran.

            LIST OF SOCIALLY AND EDUCATIONALLY BACKWARD CLASSES

 As per G.O. Ms. No. 16 Backward Classes Welfare (OP) Department, Dated:11.03.2015 and
 read with G.O.MS.No. 34, Backward Classes Welfare (OP) Department, Dated: 08/10/2015,
G.O. Ms. No. 4 Backward Classes Welfare (OP) Department, Dated: 30/01/2016, G.O.Ms.No. 3
               Backward Classes Welfare (B) Department, Dated: 09-09-2020

                                     STATE LIST OF BCs
                        (List of Backward Classes of Telangana State)
                                          GROUP-A
        (Aboriginal Tribes, Vimuktha Jathis, Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic Tribes etc.)

1 Agnikulakshatriya, Palli, Vadabalija, Bestha, Jalari, Gangavar, Gangaputra, Goondla,
    Vanyakulakshatriya (Vannekapu, Vannereddi, Pallikapu, Pallireddi) Neyyala, Pattapu.
2 Balasanthu, Bahurupi
3 *[Bandara]
4 Budabukkala
5 Rajaka (Chakali, Vannar)
6 Dasari (formerly engaged in Bikshatana i.e., Beggary)
7 Dommara
8 Gangiredlavaru
9 Jangam (whose traditional occupation is begging)
10 Jogi
11 Katipapala
12 *[Korcha]
13 Lambada or Banjara in Telangana area (deleted and included in ST list vide.
    G.O.Ms.No.149, SW, Dt.03.05.1978)
14 Medari or Mahendra
15 Mondivaru, Mondibanda, Banda
                                                                                           61


16 Nayi-Brahmin/Nayee-Brahmin (Mangali), Mangala and Bhajantri
17 Nakkala (deleted vide. G.O.Ms.No.21, BCW (C2) Dept., Dt.20.06.2011, since it is included in
    the list of Scheduled Tribes at Sl.No.34 vide. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
    Order (Amendment) Act, 2002 (Central Act No.10 of 2003)
18 Vamsha Raj / Pitchiguntla
19 Pamula
20 Pardhi (Nirshikari)
21 Pambala
22 Peddammavandlu, Devaravandlu, Yellammavandlu, Mutyalammavandlu, Dammali /
    Dammala / Dammula / Damala
23 Veeramushti (Nettikotala), Veerabhadreeya
24 Valmiki Boya (Boya, Bedar, Kirataka, Nishadi, Yellapi, Pedda Boya), Talayari, Chunduvallu
    (Yellapi and Yellapu are one and the same as clarified vide. G.O.Ms.No.61, BCW (M1)
    Dept., Dt.05.12.1996)
25 Yerukalas in Telangana area (deleted and included at Sl.No.31 in the list of STs)
26 Gudala
27 Kanjara – Bhatta
28 *[Kalinga]
29 Kepmare or Reddika
30 Mondepatta
31 Nokkar
32 Pariki Muggula
33 Yata
34 Chopemari
35 Kaikadi
36 Joshinandiwalas
37 Odde (Oddilu, Vaddi, Vaddelu), Vaddera, Vaddabhovi, Vadiyaraj, Waddera
38 Mandula
39 Mehtar (Muslim)
40 Kunapuli
41 Patra
42 *[Kurakula]
43 *[Pondara]
44 *[Samanthula /Samantha/ Sountia / Sauntia]
45 Pala-Ekari, Ekila, Vyakula, Ekiri, Nayanivaru, Palegaru, Tolagari, Kavali (area confined to
    Hyderabad and Rangareddy Districts only)
46 Rajannala, Rajannalu (area confined to Karimnagar, Warangal, Nizamabad and Adilabad
    Districts only)
47 Bukka Ayyavars
48 Gotrala
49 Kasikapadi / Kasikapudi (area confined to Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Nizamabad,
    Mahaboobnagar and Adilabad Districts only)
50 Siddula
51 Sikligar/ Saikalgar
52 Poosala (included vide. G.O.Ms.No.16, BCW(C2) Dept., Dt.19.02.2009 by deleting from
    Sl.No.24 under Group-D)
53 *[Aasadula / Asadula]
54 *[Keuta / Kevuto / Keviti]
55 Orphan and Destitute Children who have lost their parents before reaching the age of ten
    and are destitute; and who have nobody else to take care of them either by law or custom;
    and also who are admitted into any of the schools or orphanages run by the Government or
    recognised by the Government.
56 Addapuvaru
57 Bagothula/ Bhagavathula
58 Bail Kammara/ Ghisadi/ Gadiya Lohar
59 Enooti/ Yenetivallu
60 Ganjikuti/ Ganjikutivaru
61 Gouda Jetti
62 Kakipadagala
63 Patamvaru/ Masaiahlu
64 Odd/ Od/ Oad
65 Sonnayila/ Sannayila/ Sannayollu
66 Sri Kshatriya Ramajogi/ Ramajogi/ Ramajogula
67 Theracheerala/ Telsoori/ Baikani
68 Tholubommalatavaru/ Boppala
                                                                                         62


                                        GROUP-B
                                    (Vocational Groups)
1 *[Achukatlavandlu]
2 Aryakshatriya, Chittari, Giniyar, Chitrakara, Nakhas
3 Devanga
4 Goud [Ediga, Gouda (Gamalla), Kalalee, Gounda, [*Settibalija of Visakhapatnam, East
    Godavari, West Godavari and Krishna districts] and Srisayana (Segidi)
5 Dudekula, Laddaf, Pinjari or Noorbash
6 Gandla, Telikula, Devathilakula
7 Jandra
8 Kummara or Kulala, Salivahana
9 Karikalabhakthulu, Kaikolan or Kaikala (Sengundam or Sengunther)
10 Karnabhakthulu
11 Kuruba or Kuruma
12 *[Nagavaddilu]
13 Neelakanthi
14 Patkar (Khatri)
15 Perika (Perika Balija, Puragiri kshatriya)
16 Nessi or Kurni
17 Padmasali (Sali, Salivan, Pattusali, Senapathulu, Thogata Sali)
18 Srisayana (Segidi) (deleted vide. G.O.Ms.No.63, BCW (M1) Dept., Dt.11.12.1996 and added
    to Sl.No.4 of Group-B)
19 Swakulasali
20 Thogata, Thogati or Thogataveerakshatriya
21 Viswabrahmin (Ausula, Kamsali, Kammari, Kanchari, Vadla or Vadra or Vadrangi and Silpis),
    Viswakarma
22 *[Kunchiti / Vakkaliga / Vakkaligara / Kunchitiga]
23 Lodh/ Lodhi/ Lodha (area confined to Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Khammam and Adilabad
    Districts only)
24 Bondili
25 Are Marathi, Maratha (Non-Brahmins), Arakalies and Surabhi Natakalavallu
26 Neeli (included vide. G.O.Ms.No. 43, BCW (C2) Dept., Dt.07.08.2008 by deleting from Group
    D at Sl.No.22)
27 Budubunjala / Bhunjwa / Bhadbhunja (area confined to Hyderabad and Rangareddy Districts
    only)
28 *[Gudia / Gudiya]

                                         GROUP-C

 Scheduled Castes converts to Christianity and their progeny

                                         GROUP-D
                                      (Other Classes)
1 *[Agaru]
2 Arekatika, Katika, Are-Suryavamshi
3 *[Atagara]
4 Bhatraju
5 Chippolu (Mera)
6 *[Gavara]
7 *[Godaba]
8 Hatkar
9 *[Jakkala]
10 Jingar
11 *[Kandra]
12 Koshti
13 Kachi
14 Surya Balija (Kalavanthula), Ganika
15 Krishnabalija (Dasari, Bukka)
16 *[Koppulavelamas]
17 Mathura
18 Mali (Bare, Barai, Marar and Tamboli)
19 Mudiraj, Mutrasi, Tenugollu
20 Munnurukapu
21 *[Nagavasam (Nagavamsa)]
22 Nelli (deleted vide. G.O.Ms.No.43, BCW(C2) Dept., Dt.07.08.2008 and added at Sl.No.26 in
    Group 'B')
23 *[Polinati Velamas of Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam districts]
                                                                                            63


24 Poosala caste (deleted vide. G.O.Ms.No.16, BCW(C2) Dept., Dt.19.02.2009 and included at
    S.No.52 under Group-A)
25 Passi
26 Rangarez or Bhavasara Kshatriya
27 Sadhuchetty
28 Satani (Chattadasrivaishnava)
29 Tammali (Non-Brahmins) (Shudra caste) whose traditional occupation is playing musical
    instruments, vending of flowers and giving assistance in temple service but not
    Shivarchakars
30 *[Turupukapus or Gajulakapus]
31 Uppara or Sagara
32 Vanjara (Vanjari)
33 Yadava (Golla)
34 Are, Arevallu and Arollu
35 *[Sadara / Sadaru]
36 *[Arava]
37 Ayyaraka (area confined to Khammam and Warangal Districts only)
38 Nagaralu (area confined to Hyderabad and Rangareddy Districts only)
39 Aghamudian, Aghamudiar, Agamudivellalar and Agamudimudaliar (including Thuluva
    Vellalas) (area confined to Hyderabad and Rangareddy Districts only)
40 *[Beri Vysya / Beri Chetty]
41 *[Atirasa]
42 Sondi / Sundi
43 Varala
44 Sistakaranam
45 Lakkamarikapu
46 Veerashaiva Lingayat / Lingabalija
47 Kurmi
48 Aheer/ Aheer Yadav
49 Govili/Govlii/ Gouli/Gavli
50 Kulla Kadagi/ Kulle Kadigi/ Chittepu
51Sarollu/Soma Vamsha Kshatriya

                                        GROUP-E
                (Socially and Educationally Backward Classes of Muslims)
    (Subject to outcome of Civil Appeal No(s).2628-2637/2010 etc., pending before the
                             Hon'ble Supreme Court of India)

1 Achchukattalavandlu, Singali, Singamvallu, Achchupanivallu, Achchukattuvaru,
Achukatlavandlu
2 Attar Saibulu, Attarollu
3 Dhobi Muslim/ Muslim Dhobi/ Dhobi Musalman, Turka Chakla or Turka Sakala, Turaka
  Chakali, Tulukka Vannan, Tsakalas, Sakalas or Chakalas, Muslim Rajakas
4 Faqir, Fhakir Budbudki, Ghanti Fhakir, Ghanta Fhakirlu, Turaka Budbudki, Darvesh, Fakeer
5 Garadi Muslim, Garadi Saibulu, Pamulavallu, Kani-Kattuvallu, Garadollu, Garadiga
6 Gosangi Muslim, Phakeer Sayebulu
7 Guddi Eluguvallu, Elugu Bantuvallu, Musalman Keelu Gurralavallu
8 Hajam, Nai, Nai Muslim, Navid
9 Labbi, Labbai, Labbon, Labba
10 Pakeerla, Borewale, Deera Phakirlu, Bonthala
11 Qureshi, Kureshi/ Khureshi, Khasab, Marati Khasab, Muslim Katika, Khatik Muslim
12 Shaik/ Sheikh
13 Siddi, Yaba, Habshi, Jasi
14 Turaka Kasha, Kakkukotte Zinka Saibulu, Chakkitakanevale, Terugadu Gontalavaru,
  Thirugatigantla, Rollaku Kakku Kottevaru, Pattar Phodulu, Chakketakare, Thuraka Kasha
___________________________________________________________________________
    * omitted vide G.O Ms.No.3, BCW(OP) Dept., Dated:14.08.2014

N.B.:1)The above list is for information and subject to confirmation with reference to
       G.O.Ms.No.58, SW(J) Department, dated 12.05.1997 and time to time orders.
    2) On account of any reason whatsoever in case of any doubt/ dispute arising in the matter
       of community status (SC/ST/BC/OC) of any candidate, subject to satisfaction with regard
       to relevant Rules and Regulations in force the decision of the Commission shall be final
       in all such cases.
                                                                                        64


                                     ANNEXURE – VI

     List of recognized sports disciplines for Two Percent (2%) reservation in Direct
   Recruitment in Government Departments / Govt. Institutions as per G.O. Ms. No. 74,
     Youth Advancement, Tourism & Culture (Sports) Department Dated:09-08-2012


(1) FOOTBALL
(2) HOCKEY
(3) VOLLEYBALL
(4) HANDBALL
(5) BASKET BALL
(6) TENNIS
(7) TABLE TENNIS
(8) SHUTTLE BADMINTON
(9) KABBADI
(10) ATHLETICS
(11) SWIMMING
(12) GYMNASTICS
(13) WEIGHTLIFTING
(14) WRESTLING
(15) BOXING
(16) CYCLING
(17) ROWING
(18) SHOOTING
(19) FENCING
(20) ROLLER SKATING
(21) SAILING / YATCHING
(22) ARCHERY
(23) CRICKET
(24) CHESS
(25) KHO-KHO
(26) JUDO
(27) TEAKWANDO
(28) SOFTBALL
(29) BODY BUILDING (Uniform Services like Police, Excise etc).




                                          ** * **
